DATE:  30.04.2019, 11:07:08
TITLE: World’s first ‘Bitcoin city’ where cash is BANNED hopes to attract 3million ‘crypto-tourists’ a year
URL:   https://www.thesun.co.uk/tech/8969115/worlds-first-bitcoin-city/

A BLOCKCHAIN city is being built in Malaysia in which tourists will only be able to use cyrptocurrency.

The development, backed by the Chinese government, intends to turn 835 acres of the Malaysian city of Malacca into the 'tourist blockchain-destination of the future'.

4 This is what the city could look like Credit: Melaka Straits City project

The area will be called Melaka Straits City.

Visitors will have to know how to use blockchain technology in the form of the DMI coin if they wish to pay for any public services during their stay.

Other similar projects are underway across the world as companies battle to create the crypto-destination of the future but the Melaka Straits City development aims to be the first blockchain city in Asia.

Melaka Straits City is also intended to be used for businesses and for educational services as well as tourism.

4 Malacca City is the capital city of the Malaysian state of Malacca

What is Bitcoin? Bitcoin got you baffled? Here's what you really need to know Bitcoin is a virtual currency

It's traded between people without the help of a bank

Every transaction is recorded in a public ledger, or 'blockchain'

Bitcoin is created by mining

Mining involves solving difficult maths problems using computer processors

Bitcoin can be traded anonymously, which makes it a popular way of funding illegal activities

A single Bitcoin is worth just under £5,000 today, but the value fluctuates wildly

Bitcoin is one of many different cryptocurrencies, but by far the most popular

Lim Keng Kai, an official representative of Melaka Straits City, said that the blockchain technology that visitors can use in the area will be the DMI platform with a DMI coin.

DMI is a company that provides mobile enterprise, business intelligence and cybersecurity services and it has collaborated with the Melaka Straits City on this project.

Visitors will be able to exchange normal money for DMI coins when they arrive in the city.

4 Visitors will need to use a cryptocurrency called DMI coin Credit: Getty - Contributor

4 The project will require 835 acres of the Malaysian city of Malacca, already located on the coast Credit: Getty - Contributor

Kai said in a statement: "“When tourists visit Melaka, they will be required to exchange their money into digital currencies that they can use to pay for services using their mobile phones or computers.

"The DMI web application will be available on PC and the mobile applications will run on Android and iOS devices to provide flexibility regardless of the preference of the individuals.”

Backers behind the project are aiming to make it the biggest tourist destination in Malaysia and expect it will attract three million visitors a year.

TOP STORIES IN TECH NIGHT LIGHTS How to see Elon Musk's Starlink satellites soar over UK TONIGHT RAINING FIRE How to watch Lyrid meteor shower fireballs burn up in the sky TONIGHT NIGHT LIGHTS Weird streaks of satellites to pass over UK TONIGHT - how to watch Shooting Stars What time will the Lyrid meteor shower peak tonight? SKY NET Satellites lit up UK skies last night – and some people thought they were UFOs PLAN-IT Jupiter is so bright you can see it from the UK with the naked eye TONIGHT

Earlier this year, more than £100million in digital cash went missing from a dead Bitcoin trader's laptop.

And, Britain’s first "Bitcoin Baby" earned £3,000 in just two weeks thanks to hundreds of crypto-donations in January.

You can read our beginners guide to Bitcoin, including how it can gain or lose you money, by clicking here.

Would you like to visit the Bitcoin city? Let us know in the comments...

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.