DATE:  10.03.2019, 12:19:00
TITLE: Lamborghini-driving bitcoin trader charged with drug trafficking
URL:   https://www.theage.com.au/national/victoria/lamborghini-driving-bitcoin-trader-charged-with-drug-trafficking-20190310-p5134n.html

The AFP will allege that Mr Karagiozis played a key role in directing an organised crime syndicate, which used various dark web sites, bitcoin accounts and legitimate businesses for the sourcing, payment and distribution of drugs. A joint taskforce between the AFP and financial intelligence agency AUSTRAC raided properties linked to Mr Karagiozis in Bulleen, Templestowe and Malvern, where they seized steroids, cash and cryptocurrency related items. He was refused bail in the Melbourne Magistrates Court last week, after being charged with 14 offences relating to drug importation, trafficking and possession. Following the arrest, AUSTRAC suspended the registration of two digital currency exchange businesses linked to Mr Karagiozis. At the same, the AFP placed restraining orders on assets worth more than $2 million, including bank accounts, real estate, cars, cash and cryptocurrency. Auscoin founder Sam Karagiozis poses for a photo with his Bentley with personalised number plates reading MRBTC.

Mr Karagiozis' arrest last week was linked to raids on properties in Mernda and Kew in October 2017, when AFP officers seized 15.8 kilograms of MDMA, 2.6 kilograms of cocaine and more than a kilogram of ketamine. The drugs are understood to have been ordered on the dark web and sent to Australia in the post. Happy to describe himself as a '"hustler", Mr Karagiozis has been an enthusiastic spruiker of bitcoin and other cyptocurrencies at investment seminars around Australia. Sam Karagiozis (centre) poses for a photo with Australian tennis star Nick Kyrgios (l) and his brother Christos Kyrgios. He has rolled out a national network of automatic teller machines that exchange cryptocurrency, while his Greek-themed restaurants in St Kilda, Thornbury and Far North Queensland allow patrons to purchase souvlaki with bitcoin.

His 'rags to riches' sales pitch would often make reference to his tough upbringing in Melbourne's northern suburbs. "For me, being self-made means I started with nothing," Mr Karagiozis said on social media. He left school at 15 and worked at a McDonalds restaurant, which he credits for his "relentless work ethic". He claims to have only read one book in his life - Donald Trump's The Art of the Deal. Around the same time, Mr Karagiozis developed a passion for weight training, according to his online profile. "Sam would often travel two hours return to buy protein powder from the Melbourne CBD and sell them to other employees at McDonald’s. The purpose of this was to cover the cost of Sam’s supplements which allowed him to train."

Sam Karagiotis has "self made" tattooed across his knuckles. At 16, he started his first business, Hellas Nutrition, before moving into the security industry and later, property development. In 2017, Mr Karagiozis founded Auscoin Group, with bold plans to launch his own cryptocurrency and raise $30 million from the initial coin offering (ICO). He was also trading bitcoin, which peaked in value in December 2017. Mr Karagiozis joined clients Nick Kyrgios and older brother Christos in the players box at the 2018 Australian Open. But his scheme to install 1200 Auscoin ATMs in shopping centres around Australia and Asia foundered when the offering raised less than $2 million. Around 30 Australian shopping centres currently have Auscoin ATMs.

His personal fortune took a battering, losing more than $5 million in 2018. Unperturbed, he continued to flaunt his wealth. His stable of luxury cars included a Lamborghini Gallardo and a Bentley Continental with personalised plates "MR BTC". Last year, Mr Karagiozis even launched his own fashion range that included hoodies with "Team no sleep" and "All or nothing" emblazoned on the back. As the value of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies plummeted, he urged his clients and social media followers to ignore negative sentiment. "It’s Monday and I have one piece of advice for all you hustlers out there! F**k the Haters! Get out there and take what’s yours. Outwork the competition, help others, stay humble," he said in a facebook post in November 2018.