DATE:  02.01.2019, 13:32:36
TITLE: Bitcoin Vs. Real Estate: Who Will Win In 2019?
URL:   https://seekingalpha.com/article/4231040-bitcoin-vs-real-estate-who-will-win-in-2019

This research report was jointly produced with Samuel Smith, co-author of High Yield Landlord.

2017 was the year of bitcoin (BTC-USD): the price surged from below $1,000 to a high of nearly $20,000. Meanwhile, 2018 has seen the price crater to ~$3,700 as of this writing. Given this enormous volatility, it is anyone's guess what 2019 will bring for the cryptocurrency market, and indeed many investors remain highly bullish on cryptocurrencies.

However, while we do not presume to know the short term price movements in highly volatile, speculative cryptocurrencies or any other asset class, we are far more confident in allocating our hard-earned capital to an asset class that has stood the test of time as a proven investment vehicle: real estate.

Real Asset vs. Digital Ledger

Real estate is quite simply a piece of planet earth that combines land with a man-made structural improvement. As a result it is a tangible asset that provides clear value to its occupier. Additionally, the nature of its value is limited, necessary, and flexible - giving it remarkable durability and stability in value.

Real estate is limited because the amount of land on planet earth is finite and only certain portions of earth are suitable for various types of real estate (i.e., the Sahara Desert is not ideal for most types of farming).

Real estate is necessary because everyone in the world needs shelter in which to live, farmland for growing food, factories to produce goods, storehouses to keep surplus food and goods until needed, etc. Simply put: real estate is absolutely needed for the survival and prosperity of the human race and cannot be replaced.

Finally, real estate is flexible in that many buildings can serve multiple purposes with only a little or even no changes needed to the land or the structure and even when significant redevelopment is needed, it can still often be done in a profitable manner over the long run. As a result, even property that is currently allocated to a business enterprise that is no longer sufficiently profitable still possesses significant value due to its flexibility.

Bitcoin, on the other hand, is not a real asset and instead resides on a digital ledger, utilizing the blockchain technology. While the blockchain is currently disrupting and changing the world in numerous and exciting ways (and will likely continue to do so for the foreseeable future), individual cryptocurrencies are simply one means of exchange on the blockchain, thereby giving them a far less certain future.

Arguments in favor of bitcoin include its reliability stemming from its basis in numbers (i.e., it is as reliable as the laws of mathematics which govern our universe), its decentralizing impact on the global economy due to its independence from government control and being governed purely by the laws of supply and demand, and its very limited supply. As a result, it is viewed by many as a terrific alternative to the constantly inflated fiat currencies issued by governments across the globe, even being hailed by some enthusiasts as Gold 2.0.

Again, however, it is important to remember that bitcoin is not backed by a tangible asset, and indeed requires access to considerable computing power and internet access in order to be utilized. As a result, its government-proof nature is significantly limited since governments can easily block internet access to certain areas, thereby potentially disrupting bitcoin's utility as a decentralizing force in times of political turmoil.

Additionally, unlike real estate, bitcoin is not absolutely essential for human existence or even economic growth. Even if/when people lose faith in fiat currencies, gold (GLD) and silver (SLV) can easily fill the void (as they have for millenia). Bitcoin is useful as long as there remains a significant market for it. However, at the end of the day, it is nothing more than a piece of computer code that cannot provide any physical benefit in and of itself, cannot be repurposed into alternative uses, and can easily be replaced (by other cryptocurrencies, gold/silver, or other mediums of exchange).

Investment vs. Speculation

As Benjamin Graham stated nearly 85 years ago:

"An investment operation is one which, upon thorough analysis promises safety of principal and an adequate return. Operations not meeting these requirements are speculative."

Since they currently have very limited utility and an uncertain future (given their replaceability and inflexibility), bitcoins promise no safety of principal (it could very easily become worthless) and are therefore a highly speculative place to allocate capital. Furthermore, they do not promise any return either, since they do not generate cash flow.

Real estate, on the other hand, scores very highly on both metrics. As stated previously, it is limited, necessary, and flexible making it extremely unlikely to become worthless over time unless it is grossly mismanaged and overleveraged. Additionally, the vast majority of real estate does generate cash flow through either the fruits of the land (i.e., farming, mining, drilling, etc.), using it to produce goods and/or services for sale, or renting it out to tenants. Given that it can be repurposed to fit whichever business is in demand at the time, it is fairly resistant (if properly managed) to technological disruptions and promises profits over the long term. This line of reasoning is also supported by the data, as commercial real estate scores as the best possible risk-adjusted investment over long periods of time.

On the other hand, while Bitcoin has produced stellar returns since inception, it has been extremely volatile and currently sits at several times below its all-time highs. As a result, depending on when you invested, you may have lost a lot of money. On the other hand, real estate has proven to a much more stable "sure bet" over time and has millenia of steady appreciation and profitability backing its investment case for the future. Bitcoin, meanwhile, sees daily headlines like the following:

Source

While no one knows where stock and real estate markets are going tomorrow or even next year, we can be fairly certain that, barring an Armageddon scenario playing out, their total return as a whole will gradually increase over time due to inflation and the cash flow they generate. Bitcoin's long-term future, on the other hand, is as debatable and uncertain as tomorrow's stock price movements. It is entirely based on expectations about the future of a single cryptocurrency in an asset class that is still very new, very unregulated, and lacks the moat (necessity and flexibility) enjoyed by real estate.

Taxation Comparison

Real estate also wins the tie-breaker with bitcoin. If real estate and bitcoin were to generate the same pre-tax total return over a period of time, the real estate investor would still come out ahead thanks to the tremendous tax benefits enjoyed by the asset class. Investors are allowed to expense mortgage interest as well as depreciation of the physical structure component of the real estate. Additionally, Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are considered to be pass-through entities by the IRS, thereby exempting them from paying income tax at the corporate level and entitling shareholders to exempt 20% of their dividend income from taxation. All gains made in bitcoin, on the other hand, are taxable at the short and long term capital gains rates.

Investor Takeaway

Who will win in 2019: bitcoin or real estate? Your guess is as good as ours. However, over the long-term, real estate poses a much more compelling risk-reward investment proposition, thereby making it a surer path to wealth over the long term. On the other hand, bitcoin is far more likely to experience another 2017-like price boom than real estate due to its speculative, uncertain nature.

When choosing between the two, individuals should decide if they want to risk losing much or all of their principal in order to have a chance at quickly doubling, tripling, or even quintupling their investment or if they prefer to pursue a slower and steadier path to wealth.

At High Yield Landlord, we have chosen the latter because, as the ancient Israelite king Solomon (one of the wisest and wealthiest men to ever live) stated: "Wealth gained hastily will dwindle, but whoever gathers little by little will increase it." However, our penchant for real estate doesn't mean we are reckless. An investor can't simply invest in any random piece of real estate without regard to the price paid, its economic condition and prospects, or who is managing it and expect to achieve strong risk-adjusted returns over time.

In addition to performing proper analysis on the real estate itself, the method of investing in real estate is also important in determining long-term risk-adjusted returns. One option is to directly hold individual properties purchased through private market transactions. While some investors have experienced tremendous success through this method (and we believe it is still far superior to "investing" in bitcoin), we have identified numerous reasons why this may not be the best option for most investors, and instead prefer investing in REITs.

One easy option for REIT investing is to simply invest in the broader REIT market, utilizing an index fund such as the Vanguard REIT fund (VNQ) or iShares U.S Real Estate (IYR). However, this means buying every REIT in the index, regardless of its current price, quality, prospects, or management. While "know-nothing investors" (to borrow a term from Charlie Munger) may find this broad diversification useful, we believe (as does Charlie Munger) that using an intelligent analysis of the qualitative and quantitative aspects of each REIT in order to pick and choose the most opportunistic investments will provide the best total-returns over the long term.

We spend hours researching the REIT market in order to target the highest quality REITs that are also being offered for sale by Mr. Market at low valuations. As a result, we are able to achieve superior dividend yields (currently 8.57% weighted average in our real-money portfolio) at sustainable dividend payout ratios (currently 70.4% weighted average in our real-money portfolio), thereby giving us strong current income (enabling us to capitalize on short term volatility by averaging down on top opportunities) and superior total returns over time.

Some of our top ideas at present include Brookfield Property REIT (BPR), Spirit Realty Capital (SRC), and UMH Properties (UMH).

High Yield Landlord is one of the largest and fastest-growing communities of real estate investors on Seeking Alpha. This holiday season, we want to show our appreciation to our loyal readers. To thank you, we are offering our largest SALE ever. Subscribe now and SAVE $100. Discounted spots are limited to 3 more members only and will soon be gone. If you are looking to expand your real estate investments in 2019, take action now! Our high yielding real estate portfolio is just one click away. For more information click HERE.

Disclosure: I am/we are long ALL STOCKS IN CORE PORTFOLIO AT HIGH YIELD LANDLORD. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it (other than from Seeking Alpha). I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.