DATE:  28.02.2020, 11:56:24
TITLE: Bitcoin braced for brutal weekend as fear sets in
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/bitcoin-braced-brutal-weekend-fear-115624437.html

Bitcoin is on the brink of a major correction this weekend after suffering an 18% slide over the past 15 days.

With it now trading below the daily 200 moving average downside price targets at both $8,450 and $7,830 have emerged.

The $7,830 level of support is intriguing as it is in confluence with the diagonal trendline dating back to the start of 2019 when Bitcoin was worth just $3,350.

A potential breakdown from that level would see Bitcoin trade outside the trendline for the first time in more than a year – a clear indicator of a bear market.

However, it’s worth noting that Bitcoin has enjoyed a fruitful year to date with it still being 27% up since January 1.

As a result, several analysts remain bullish on Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies especially in light of recent turmoil in traditional markets.

Bitcoin is often described as ‘digital gold’, with gold being a common hedge to global equity markets.

As coronavirus sweeps across the globe at an alarming rate, economic instability is to be expected, and could well drive the price of Bitcoin to the upside.

Another point from a bullish perspective is that Bitcoin will undergo a block reward halving in May – an event that has historically been kind to cryptocurrency due to a reduction in supply.

Both bullish scenarios are based on macro time-frames, whereas immediate price action is signalling a move to the downside.

As previously noted, the key levels of support to monitor are $8,450 and $7,830, while a break above $8,830 would indicate a move back into the $9,000 region.

For more news, guides and cryptocurrency analysis, click here.

Bitcoin pricing

Current live BTC pricing information and interactive charts are available on our site 24 hours a day. The ticker bar at the bottom of every page on our site has the latest Bitcoin price. Pricing is also available in a range of different currency equivalents:

US Dollar – BTCtoUSD

British Pound Sterling – BTCtoGBP

Japanese Yen – BTCtoJPY

Euro – BTCtoEUR

Australian Dollar – BTCtoAUD

Russian Rouble – BTCtoRUB

About Bitcoin

In August 2008, the domain name bitcoin.org was registered. On 31st October 2008, a paper was published called “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System”. This was authored by Satoshi Nakamoto, the inventor of Bitcoin. To date, no one knows who this person, or people, are.

The paper outlined a method of using a P2P network for electronic transactions without “relying on trust”. On January 3 2009, the Bitcoin network came into existence. Nakamoto mined block number “0” (or the “genesis block”), which had a reward of 50 Bitcoins.

More BTC news and information

If you want to find out more information about Bitcoin or cryptocurrencies in general, then use the search box at the top of this page. Here’s an article to get you started.

As with any investment, it pays to do some homework before you part with your money. The prices of cryptocurrencies are volatile and go up and down quickly. This page is not recommending a particular currency or whether you should invest or not.

Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed by the author should not be considered as financial advice.