DATE:  28.02.2020, 23:24:18
TITLE: Gold Crash Ignites Financial Crisis Fears, Is Bitcoin (BTC) Just Getting Started?
URL:   https://coingape.com/gold-crash-ignites-financial-crisis-fears-bitcoin-btc-just-getting-started/

The world of finances has been hit hard in the last week. All major markets are in the red. That is, including our beloved Bitcoin. This has week-long ignited fears of a financial crisis. But during this bear phase, one asset has been performing well, gold. Gold and a number of other metals have been in the green for much of the week.

Advertisement

Today, however, most metals have taken a big hit. Gold has joined the drop, marking one of its worst days since 2013.

Resemblance To The 2009 Financial Crisis

The latest drop has reignited a fear that the world is about to experience a financial crisis like seen in 2009. Already, the stock market is down. This week saw it mark the worst drop since 2009. Bonds yields around the world are also in their worst run in ten years.

Stock market down 📉

Crypto market down 📉

Gold/Silver market down 📉

Oil prices down 📉

Bond yields down 📉 — Mr. Whale 🐋 (@cryptowhale) February 28, 2020

The crypto market and oil have also faced the same fate. Gold, which is considered a safe haven asset has been the only commodity enjoying a good return. Prior to today’s crash, the metal was enjoying a return of 6.5% since the turn of the year.

BREAKING NEWS: The stock market

has its worst drop since the 2008 financial crisis. S&P 500, which tracks large U.S. stocks, down -20%. Dow Jones falls 16%, its worst drop in history, crashing for a 5th day straight. THIS IS 2008 CRISIS ALL OVER AGAIN, but much worse! 😋 — Billy (@bitbillyy) February 28, 2020

Today’s crash has however wiped off the narrative that it is a safe haven, at least not this time. Like Bitcoin a few days ago, its crash today will see some question its status as a safe-haven asset.

Advertisement

Shall we pull a @PeterSchiff and start talking about how terrible this asset's performance is, and how it's not a safe haven, based on 2 trading days, despite great performance over the prior months? https://t.co/8TZIx2rKsh — Dan McArdle (@robustus) February 28, 2020

More importantly, it has strongly signaled a financial crisis. Analysts have been pointing out that just like in 2009, all commodities are going down.

In cases of economic downturns, everything drops. Similar with 2008. Gold corrected with the equity markets in a tandem. After that, it outperformed the equities in 2009-2011. https://t.co/KoIsKEHFmR — Crypto Michaël (@CryptoMichNL) February 28, 2020

The recent market crash has as we have extensively covered, been caused by the Coronavirus. The epidemic has hit the financial world as it disrupts the world’s biggest economies, i.e China and the U.S.

Is It Too Late For Bitcoin?

Of course, back in 2009, Bitcoin was not in play. It is the financial events that took place at that time that saw its birth. So, it was specifically designed for what is coming in the next few months. Though so far it has failed to behave the way many expect, rally, there is plenty to come. As we reported yesterday, there is pressure on the FED to cut rates, but this remains since the full impact of the Coronavirus remains unknown.

As more light is shed on this, it’s expected that the financial world will continue to shake and we see Bitcoin rise.

Summary Article Name Gold Crash Ignites Financial Crisis Fears, Is Bitcoin (BTC) Just Getting Started? Description Gold has joined the massive sell-off of commodities being experienced across different markets. This has been a major sign of a major financial crisis in the coming months. So, will Bitcoin finally rise up to fulfill its destiny? Author John Kiguru Publisher Name CoinGape Publisher Logo

Binance Futures Limited Offer: Use Use this link to register & get 10% discount on fees.



Disclaimer The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Coingape is committed to following the highest standards of journalism, and therefore, it abides by a strict editorial policy . While CoinGape takes all the measures to ensure that the facts presented in its news articles are accurate.The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Instant loans by local bank transfer using your crypto as collateral