DATE:  28.02.2020, 21:48:48
TITLE: Stocks Fall 10% In A Week As Global Recession Signals, Can Bitcoin (BTC) Hold As A Store Of Value (SoV)?
URL:   https://coingape.com/stocks-fall-10-in-a-week-as-global-recession-signals-can-bitcoin-btc-hold-as-a-store-of-value-sov/

The S&P 500 value has dipped over 10% in the past week, its highest weekly loss since the global financial crisis in 2008, raising huge concern across the financial world. Gold on the other hand is on a steady rise as an ounce of gold hit a nine-year high of $1,690 USD earlier in the week. While the former has presented unprecedented gains prior to the sharp fall over the week, the latter asset is continuing to make its case as the go-to store of value (SoV) for investors.

Advertisement

Metals massacred. Gold -4%

Silver -6%

Platinum -6%

Palladium -11% Equities down 1-3%. In extreme circumstances, almost everything but treasuries gets dumped. Feels like 2008. pic.twitter.com/0oFiloHrrk — Alex Krüger (@krugermacro) February 28, 2020

In any SoV discussion, Bitcoin (BTC) has become a common conversation and the recent volatile moves in BTC’s market is a factor that a number of analysts are debating. After briefly dropping below the $8,500 USD, questions were raised on BTC’s actual use as a store of value.

Stocks falling, where will the money move to?

Over the past, three month, the world has been fighting off the Corona Virus epidemic that has affected financial markets in equal proportion as the S&P 500 witnessed its lowest fall since the GFC in 2008. The stock market falling has seen a number of investors looking at alternative assets across the board with money flowing into gold and commodity markets.

All eyes were on the stock market this week with S&P500 experiencing its worst weekly drop since the GFC of 2008 – the year Bitcoin was created pic.twitter.com/SixUhr0X8A — skew (@skewdotcom) February 28, 2020

One market that has not enjoyed any capital bumps is BTC’s market, which experienced over 10% in losses over the past week – lower than the S&P 500. Is BTC losing its sense of a store of value?

BTC keeps falling, still a safe haven?

Having lost close to $30 billion over the past week, is BTC volatile nature killing its prospects as a store of value? Probably not.

Advertisement

#Bitcoin hasn't been through a safe haven cycle yet. Equities have pretty much been in a bull market since the first block in Jan '09. Gold has been around for thousands of years, but you discount Bitcoin's SoV potential at your peril big time trader boy. — Bitcoin il Duce ⚡️🔑🚀 (@iancbailey) February 28, 2020

Well, BTC may be entering its first ever bearish global trend as the stock market and commodities market experience the first ever drawdown since the global recession. Well, it has not started off so brightly in the days following the spread of corona virus to a number of countries but the long term prospects of BTC look healthy to provide safety for investors in times of economic repression.

Summary Article Name Stocks Fall 10% In A Week As Global Recession Signals, Can Bitcoin (BTC) Hold As A Store Of Value (SoV)? Description In any SoV discussion, Bitcoin (BTC) has become a common conversation and the recent volatile moves in BTC’s market is a factor that a number of analysts are debating. After briefly dropping below the $8,500 USD, questions were raised on BTC’s actual use as a store of value. Author Lujan Odera Publisher Name Coingape Publisher Logo

Binance Futures Limited Offer: Use Use this link to register & get 10% discount on fees.



Disclaimer The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Coingape is committed to following the highest standards of journalism, and therefore, it abides by a strict editorial policy . While CoinGape takes all the measures to ensure that the facts presented in its news articles are accurate.The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Instant loans by local bank transfer using your crypto as collateral