DATE:  01.11.2019, 21:01:32
TITLE: Blockchain Conference TNABC Returns to Miami
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/blockchain-conference-tnabc-returns-to-miami/

Blockchain Conference TNABC Returns to Miami

On January 16-17, The North American Bitcoin Conference (TNABC) and Miami Blockchain Week are returning to the sunshine state as 2020 sets in motion. TNABC, celebrating its seventh year running, will feature prominent speakers, crypto developers, and blockchain executives during the event hosted in the financial district located on the gorgeous Miami coastline.

Also read: China Ranks 35 Crypto Projects as President Xi Pushes Blockchain

TNABC Returns to the Sunshine State

The longest-running and one of the largest crypto and blockchain conferences worldwide is coming back to Miami in 2020. The North American Bitcoin Conference has been a huge success since it started in 2013 and has seen crowds upwards of 20,000 attend the two-day event. The conference will return for its seventh year to Miami on January 16-17 to kick off the new year in 2020. The conference organizer and Keynote founder, Moe Levin, told news.Bitcoin.com that the Miami event will host a lineup of more than 60 world-class presenters that are deeply immersed in the Bitcoin, blockchain and cryptocurrency economy. Levin stressed that the speakers will be well-seasoned technology veterans who produce transformative blockchain software and work with these innovative concepts and ideas every day.

The first set of 2020 speakers announced for TNABC 2020 include crypto pioneer Nick Spanos, Shapeshift.io’s Veronica McGregor, Blockchain Tax Lead at Deloitte Alexia Hefti, Bitcoin pioneer Charlie Shrem, Bloq cofounder Matthew Roszak, and Marco Santori, President of Blockchain.com. TNABC has partnered with well known industry firms that are sponsoring the conference in Miami such as Bitcoin.com, Tradestation, and The Bitcoin Center.

A Pivotal Time for Crypto and Blockchain

The two-day conference will also showcase Q&A sessions, networking, investment themes, discussions about crypto regulation, taxation, and how blockchain is revolutionizing not only the financial industry, but a large swathe of public and private sectors worldwide. In the last seven years since the first TNABC, the ecosystem has seen crypto and blockchain infrastructure mushroom into a robust industry. TNABC is meant to keep everyone attending up to date in regards to the latest technologies being developed today.

Additionally, the Keynote founder detailed that the TNABC event will have a variety of satellite events like after parties, networking events, and hackathons.

“This conference comes at a pivotal time as innovation forces us all to make wise investing decisions,” Levin said during the TNABC announcement. “With an influx of new opportunities and new applications of the blockchain, Keynote wants to give our attendees the opportunity to meet the people and product they’ll be investing in and get a better understanding of the fast-expanding blockchain ecosystem.” Levin added:

We’re also excited for our attendees to meet and interact with our sponsors and exhibitors, who are the greatest blockchain companies active at the moment.

The conference plans to be another premiere event that melds the biggest names in traditional finance, banking, and multinational corporations with developers, executives, and influencers from the blockchain space. Tickets for the seventh annual TNABC event at the James L. Knight Center in Miami can be purchased today. The TNABC website highlights:

On both days of our highly curated agenda, attendees will attend stand-alone sessions, panel discussions and Q&A by leading experts and decision-makers, while also having the opportunity to learn about new and exciting projects.

Will you be attending The North American Bitcoin Conference 2020 in Miami? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Images credits: Shutterstock, Bitcoin.com, TNABC, Keynote Events, and Moe Levin.

You can now purchase Bitcoin without visiting a cryptocurrency exchange. Buy BTC and BCH directly from our trusted seller and, if you need a Bitcoin wallet to securely store it, you can download one from us here.