DATE:  27.01.2020, 11:00:44
TITLE: 5 Online Casinos That Accept Bitcoin Cash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/5-online-casinos-that-accept-bitcoin-cash/

5 Online Casinos That Accept Bitcoin Cash

Digital cash was the original use case for bitcoin, and it remains the primary one for bitcoin cash (BCH) today. The ability to send funds anywhere in the world quickly and cheaply has made bitcoin cash a popular choice for online casino players. There are scores of gaming sites where you can deposit BCH and other cryptos and then withdraw your winnings in the same manner. Here’s a snapshot of what these crypto-friendly sites have to offer.

Also read: How to Create Custom SLP Tokens With the Bitcoin.com Mint



Mintdice

Dice is a long-standing favorite among bitcoiners, some of whom fondly recall playing Satoshi Dice in the early days, when the hi-low gaming site provided one of the first use cases for bitcoin. At Mintdice, you can roll the dice to your heart’s content, or have a go at Bit.Rocket, a social bitcoin game that combines skill and luck. There are also slots and plinko games to be tried. The latter is a board game based on a popular TV gameshow that entails climbing a staircase to the top of the board, with various prizes appearing along the way.

Mintdice accepts BCH and BTC plus around a dozen other cryptos including privacy coins like XMR and PIVX. Once your onchain deposit has cleared, you’re free to start playing. Mintdice supports anonymous accounts that require only a username for players who value their privacy, but full accounts are also available.

Wild Casino

Fiat and crypto are supported at Wild Casino, but deposit with the latter and you’ll receive a bigger bonus of up to $9,000. As seasoned players will know, casinos typically offer to match your first deposit by way of a welcome bonus. To claim the maximum amount proffered, therefore, you would have to deposit an equally large sum. Not only does Wild Casino accept bitcoin cash, but it also takes BTC, ETH, and, unusually, XRP. In terms of games, the casino serves up a familiar blend of slots, blackjack, table games, video poker, and a live casino.

Mbit

Mbit is a proud bitcoin-first casino that pledges a welcome bonus of up to 5 BTC. The site, which was established in 2014, serves up 2,000 games, requires no account to play, and enables players to cashout in less than 10 minutes. In addition to bitcoin cash, Mbit allows players to use BTC, DOGE, LTC, and USDT. There’s also a VIP program whose tiers are named after cryptocurrency planets. 500 points will take you to Planet Bitcoin Cash, while The Moon is “by invitation only.”

1xbit

If a casino has “bit” in its name, it’s a sure sign it’s crypto friendly; it’s just a case of which cryptos it accepts. At 1xbit, the answer is “all of them.” In addition to BCH and BTC, there are less fancied coins like BTG and XVG accepted. You’ll receive a 100% welcome bonus of up to 1 BTC, and in addition to casino games, 1xbit has an extensive sportsbook and a separate esports section. Alternatively, if sports aren’t your thing you can bet on politics instead.

Cash Games

Perhaps the best known gaming site for BCH fans is Bitcoin.com’s Cash Games. As a gaming site built around bitcoin cash, it features a leaderboard that pays out $1,000 in BCH bonuses to slots players, and there’s no need to create an account to play. Built-in coin conversion, implemented using Sideshift.ai, allows players to switch from other cryptos such as BTC to BCH in order to play.

All of the games on the site are provably fair, which entails taking a random number and cryptographically hashing it, which can later be used to show that the outcome of the game hasn’t been manipulated. There’s a jackpot of up to 10,000 BCH for playing slots and 5,000 for keno. Instant cashouts come as standard and so does player anonymity.

What other BCH casinos have you tried? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Did you know you can verify any unconfirmed Bitcoin transaction with our Bitcoin Block Explorer tool? Simply complete a Bitcoin address search to view it on the blockchain. Plus, visit our Bitcoin Charts to see what’s happening in the industry.