DATE:  27.01.2020, 12:00:34
TITLE: Latest Bitcoin price and analysis (BTC to USD)
URL:   https://coinrivet.com/latest-bitcoin-price-and-analysis-btc-to-usd-43/

Bitcoin (BTC) is currently trading at around $8,610 following a 3% increase in price over the last 24 hours.

Even though BTC seemed to be struggling last week, the world’s largest cryptocurrency recovered nicely over the weekend.

Bitcoin momentarily traded close to $8,300 at the start of the weekend after price dropped 4% from Thursday to Saturday.

Since then, Bitcoin has rebounded to the upside, which reiterates the bullish sentiment surrounding the digital asset ahead of this summer’s halving event.

Bitcoin now seems to be consolidating above $8,600 and getting ready for another shot at the $8,830 level of resistance.

Let’s take a look at Bitcoin’s chart, courtesy of TradingView.

Bitcoin has been climbing upwards since the start of the new year, breaking through all its EMAs over the past few weeks after a major rally that took the digital asset from just below $7,000 to over $8,600.

From bottom to top, BTC has grown about 28% in the space of 18 days. At the moment, BTC is still around 25% higher than the start of the year.

However, price needs to continue picking up steam if the hangover from the second half of 2019 is to completely turn around.

In addition, Bitcoin’s volume must continue to grow. At the time of writing, it is showing signs of having fully recovered and is now between 30-40% higher than last month – around $23 billion.

If Bitcoin is able to maintain the positive trend seen so far this year, we might see it top $10,000 sooner than expected.

The current Bitcoin trend

Last week, I underlined that within the next few days/weeks, we could see a major reversal after a period of serious accumulation by ‘hodlers’.

The boost in trading volume means the accumulation cycle could be close to an end and the bull run we’re all waiting for will start sooner than expected.

The upwards movement over the past few days could mean a shift in sentiment, but it is too early to tell. It seems we already found the bottom (during 2019) and could be making our way towards a mid-term move to the upside.

For the time being though, there’s a chance it can go either way. Only if BTC continues to record higher lows will price continue to go up.

Hopefully, the 200-day EMA (blue line) will now become support for Bitcoin and BTC will continue to hold above all its EMAs. In addition, I expect the 20-day EMA to cross both the 50-day and 200-day EMAs to the upside quite soon.

When these golden crosses take place, my take on the market will considerably shift to the upside.

Are the bulls back in town?

I strongly believe Bitcoin to be a long-term store of value, especially as traditional markets continue to show weaknesses.

How can the markets continue to push higher after the ECB’s recent rate cuts, the continuous share buybacks from huge corporations, or the inverted bond yield shoving investors away towards riskier assets?

In addition, repo market activity – as in loans from central banks to commercial and investment banks – has spiked to new monthly records. That adds up to another signal of weakness for the general economy.

We shouldn’t forget that the Bitcoin halving is coming in May 2020, which will put extra positive pressure on price as the number of Bitcoin minted per block is halved.

The key aspect of the halving event is to work out whether it has already been priced-in by miners. I personally doubt it, since most people (and businesses) have a short-term mindset.

Therefore, I see miners pushing for lower prices until the halving takes place. The harder it is to mine until the halving, the more miners will drop off, leaving more room for profits for the players who stay.

In conclusion, investors and traders should pay attention to the overall economic panorama, as it will most likely be a major catalyst for worldwide BTC adoption.

Safe trades!

Current live Bitcoin pricing information and interactive charts are available on our site 24 hours a day. The ticker bar at the bottom of every page on our site has the latest Bitcoin price. Pricing is also available in a range of different currency equivalents:

US Dollar – BTCtoUSD

British Pound Sterling – BTCtoGBP

Japanese Yen – BTCtoJPY

Euro – BTCtoEUR

Australian Dollar – BTCtoAUD

Russian Rouble – BTCtoRUB

About Bitcoin

In August 2008, the domain name bitcoin.org was registered. On 31st October 2008, a paper was published called “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System”. This was authored by Satoshi Nakamoto, the inventor of Bitcoin. To date, no one knows who this person, or people, are.

The paper outlined a method of using a P2P network for electronic transactions without “relying on trust”. On January 3 2009, the Bitcoin network came into existence. Nakamoto mined block number “0” (or the “genesis block”), which had a reward of 50 Bitcoins.

More Bitcoin news and information

If you want to find out more information about Bitcoin or cryptocurrencies in general, then use the search box at the top of this page. Here’s an article to get you started.

As with any investment, it pays to do some homework before you part with your money. The prices of cryptocurrencies are volatile and go up and down quickly. This page is not recommending a particular currency or whether you should invest or not.

Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed by the author should not be considered as financial advice.