DATE:  20.01.2019, 14:07:53
TITLE: CoinMe To Sell Bitcoin At Thousands Of United States Grocery Stores
URL:   https://usethebitcoin.com/coinme-to-sell-bitcoin-at-thousands-of-united-states-grocery-stores/

Thousands of grocery stores in the United States will be selling Bitcoin (BTC) through new kiosks installed by Coinstar. A U.S. Bitcoin ATM company called Coinme partnered with Coinstar to start offering Bitcoin purchasing facilities across the country. The information was released in a press release a few days ago by Coinme.

Coinme Offers Bitcoin Through Coinstar Kiosks

Thousands of new kiosks will be allowing interested users to purchase Bitcoin, the most popular digital asset in the market. Coinme was the first state-licensed Bitcoin ATM company in the United States. At the moment, the firm is deploying crypto ATMs all over the world.

Neil Bergquist, Coinme Co-Founder and CEO, commented about it:

“We’re excited to team up with Coinstar to give consumers a convenient and easy way to buy Bitcoin during the course of their daily routines. Bitcoin is now accessible at your local grocery store via Coinstar kiosks, and this offering will make it even easier for consumers to participate in this dynamic new economy.”

Digital currencies have been expanding in the market. Individuals have been very interested in them after a bull run that the crypto market experienced in 2017. Now, customers will be able to buy Bitcoin when they go to make daily purchases to the grocery store that is close to their homes.

Coinstar is currently operating around 20,000 fully automated self-service coin-counting kiosks in nine different countries. To purchase Bitcoin at these kiosks, users have to select the “Buy Bitcoin” option and accept transaction terms.

Users also have to provide their phone number. Then, the user will have to insert $2,500 in paper money into the cash acceptor and receive a voucher with a Bitcoin redemption code. After it, customers can visit www.conme.com/redeem to claim the Bitcoin.

“Coinstar is always looking for new ways to offer value to our consumers when they visit kiosks and Coinme’s innovative delivery mechanism along with Coinstar’s flexible platform makes it possible for consumers to easily purchase Bitcoin with cash,” explained Jim Gaherty, the CEO of Coinstar.

Just a few weeks ago, we reported that French ‘tabac’ shops are starting to sell Bitcoin to interested customers. These shops are very traditional in the country and are famous for selling cigarettes, cigars and also lottery tickets. This would allow individuals to have easier access to the crypto market.