DATE:  20.01.2019, 11:35:21
TITLE: The Daily: Coinspot Launches OTC Desk, Bitdeer Expands in Eastern Europe
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/the-daily-coinspot-launches-otc-desk-bitdeer-expands-in-eastern-europe/

The Daily: Coinspot Launches OTC Desk, Bitdeer Expands in Eastern Europe

Crypto exchange Coinspot has launched an over-the-counter trading desk in Australia and you’ll find more about the platform in this edition of The Daily. Elsewhere, computing power-sharing platform Bitdeer.com is focusing on Eastern Europe through a partnership with the largest digital asset trader in the region, Exmo. And in the U.S., expired Mccoins will get you a Big King.

Also read: Sapphire Develops GPU for Grin, TSMC Sees Drop in Mining Revenue

Crypto Exchange Coinspot Offers OTC Services to Australian Traders

Australian cryptocurrency exchange Coinspot has announced the launch of its dedicated over-the-counter (OTC) trading desk. The platform will be able to process high-volume transactions for its members without the need to use the traditional public order books.

The idea behind the project is to solve problems of liquidity for traders who want to deal in larger quantities. The company believes the OTC desk will reduce their exposure to fluctuations on the crypto markets. Lock-in pricing is expected to eliminate slippage and minimize the risks associated with high-volume trading.

Clients can now buy and sell a number of digital assets, including bitcoin core (BTC), bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum (ETH), ripple (XRP), litecoin (LTC), and the stablecoin tether (USDT). Coinspot, which is among the leading crypto exchanges in Australia, promises access to the widest variety of digital coins in the country.

The main condition for using the service is that each trade should be valued at AUD $50,000 (USD ~$36,000) or more. A 0.1 percent fee is applicable to transactions on the platform. Coinspot’s OTC desk will offer its users the services of a professional trading broker.

Bitdeer Launches Russian Site, Partners With Exmo

Bitdeer.com has launched a Russian version of its website. The announcement comes with the news that the computing power-sharing platform has teamed up with Exmo, the largest digital asset trading platform in Eastern Europe. The partnership will allow Bitdeer and Exmo to provide their users with the opportunity to participate in cryptocurrency mining with no technical insight or investments in server infrastructure.

The two companies hope to popularize the minting of digital coins and contribute to the development of the crypto market. Offering new payment processing models and related customized products to the public is also part of their plans for the future.

Bitdeer CEO Celine Lu described the two initiatives as a milestone for the company’s venture in Eastern Europe. “Through the new partnership with the region’s largest crypto exchange and the launch of a localized website, Bitdeer.com has geared up to bring the best service to local as well as global individual miners,” Lu said, noting that around a third of the platform’s users come from Russian-speaking mining communities.

Despite the bearish trend in the crypto space, Bitdeer.com has seen its traffic reach over 1.2 million visits and over 50,000 daily active users. The platform has users from more than 165 countries. Over 40 percent of its orders have been placed by customers in the U.S.

Leading crypto companies such as Huobi and Binance have been taking steps to expand their presence on the Russian market, establishing offices in the country and offering Russian-language services. Crypto exchange Exmo enjoys growing popularity in the greater Russian-speaking world thanks to supporting trading pairs with local fiat currencies such as the Russian ruble and the Ukrainian hryvnia.

Burger Chains in Coin War

Maccoins, which were minted last summer to mark the 50th anniversary of the Big Mac and ride the wave of the crypto craze, have expired. Now a major competitor is making its own marketing stunt at the expense of McDonald’s “global currency.”

This week, fast food fans were invited to cash in their Maccoins at select Burger King locations in Chicago, U.S. media reported. Customers have been offered a free Big King XL in exchange for the tokens.

Burger King claims its new sandwich has 175 percent more beef than the Big Mac and comes without a third bun. Last year McDonald’s “limited edition” coins provided holders anywhere in the world with a free Big Mac.

What are your thoughts on today’s news tidbits? Tell us in the comments section.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Need to calculate your bitcoin holdings? Check our tools section.