DATE:  16.09.2019, 17:30:00
TITLE: Liven Announces Strategic Partnership with Bitcoin.com
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-liven-announces-strategic-partnership-with-bitcoin-com/

Liven Announces Strategic Partnership with Bitcoin.com

Liven, the lifestyle rewards app that lets users spend and earn cryptocurrency rewards in over 1,000 restaurants across Australia, is introducing Bitcoin Cash into the LivenPay ecosystem. Meanwhile, Liven’s native token, LVN, gets listed on ZB.com after a successful completion of its oversubscribed ZB UP Launch.

Up until now, diners using the Liven app at participating restaurants have been able to settle their bills with a single button tap, using major credit and debit cards, as well as the LivenPay cryptocurrency (LVN), earning rewards between 10% and 30% of their bill, paid in LVN. The LVN earned is the diner’s to keep, send to friends or, of course, spend at any other restaurants within the Liven network.

With support for LVN or ‘old-fashioned’ fiat currency, and soon to be Bitcoin Cash, LivenPay aims to make the day-to-day use of cryptocurrencies both attractive and accessible to the everyday people, resulting in a global loyalty rewards program that will eventually support a plethora of cryptocurrencies.

“With LivenPay as the ‘on-ramp’, we want to entice users and businesses around the world to enjoy the benefits of using frictionless, global cryptocurrency payments. With our future pipeline of cryptocurrency integrations, Bitcoin Cash is the next step to expanding cryptocurrency support and being truly blockchain and currency agnostic” said CEO and Co-Founder William Wong.

LivenPay’s existing ecosystem makes it simple and straightforward to integrate new cryptocurrencies into its growing network of over 1,000 participating businesses and 500,000 tech-savvy consumers.

“The integration of Bitcoin Cash is a logical and exciting step for LivenPay, given that their popular and current business model is going fully global in 2019. With the support of Bitcoin Cash, LivenPay will soon create a perfect entry-point for hundreds of thousands of people into the wider blockchain and digital currency ecosystem,” said enthused cryptocurrency legend and Bitcoin.com Executive Chairman Roger Ver, who is also LivenPay’s official advisor.

Liven users will soon be able to pay for their meals with Bitcoin Cash through the Liven app.

The team soon hopes that paying with LivenPay will just be as ubiquitous around the world as taking an Uber, whether you are in Shanghai or St. Petersburg, as Wong’s take-away comment surmises:

“LivenPay enables people to grab a bite wherever in the world their feet may fall, whether it is a celebratory meal out or a burger joint for lunch. It also allows for the mass adoption of crypto from fiat, whether that be from Chinese Renminbis or Russian Rubles.”

Website: https://livenpay.io

Whitepaper (English): https://s3-ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/livenpay.io/LIVEN-WhitePaper(EN).pdf