DATE:  19.08.2019, 18:10:21
TITLE: Bitcoin Faketoshi Fails Again? Craig Wright ‘Exposed’ by Microsoft Office
URL:   https://www.ccn.com/bitcoin-craig-wright-exposed-by-microsoft/

By CCN Markets: Self-proclaimed Bitcoin creator Craig Wright popped up to remind everyone of his existence this week. While yet another ‘Faketoshi’ showed up to begin their own unique scam, Wright was busy unwittingly exposing his own.

Did Microsoft Office Just Catch Craig Wright in the Act?

On August 18th, Craig Wright uploaded a paper to the SSRN database titled Payments Providers and Intermediaries as Defined in the Law of the Internet. The paper, which has had its submission date removed, is dated from 2007, and it miraculously echoes the very first line of the original Bitcoin whitepaper. Wright’s paper, allegedly from 2007, reads:

“In a similar manner to the web, a purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash would allow online payments to be sent directly from one party to another without going through a payment intermediary.”

That’s good news for Wright, who has been busy trying to convince the world he’s Satoshi Nakamoto for the past four years. Or maybe not – because it took less than 24 hours for Wright’s devious scheme to allegedly be exposed.

Peter McCormack, the podcaster currently being sued for libel by Craig Wright in the UK, unearthed some interesting facts about Wright’s document. After downloading the only archived version of the paper (from August 18th, 2019, no less), a check of its metadata revealed the creation date to be…August 18th, 2019. Or yesterday.

The metadata reveals the paper to have been created using Microsoft Office 365. This version of Office was not released commercially until 2011, yet appears in Wright’s paper which he claims is from 2007.

Fake Bitcoin Creator’s Comedy of Errors Continues

This isn’t the first time Craig Wright’s attempts at deception have been undone by elements of the Microsoft Office family. In early July it was revealed that documents Wright had submitted as part of the ongoing Kleiman trial weren’t from the date he claimed.

On that occasion, Wright was undone by a version of the Calibri typeface, which wasn’t created until 2015, yet appears in Wright’s 2012 documentation.

Such tomfoolery ultimately led McCormack to ponder why exactly Wright is suing him.

In April, Wright issued McCormack with a lawsuit due to the podcaster’s refusal to affirm Wright’s status as the creator of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto. Another lawsuit issued by Wright against Bitcoin.com owner, Roger Ver, was dismissed by a UK court for not being relevant to its jurisdiction.

Despite the arrival of a new self-proclaimed Bitcoin creator on the scene, Wright appears to be doing everything to remind us that he is, and always will be, the number one Faketoshi.