DATE:  16.01.2020, 11:00:37
TITLE: Top 10 Altcoins under $1 to Invest in 2020
URL:   https://theccpress.com/altcoins-under-1-usd/

Cryptocurrencies are the best investment vehicles for investors seeking to make quick gains. While Bitcoin retains the lead in terms of market capitalization, several other cryptocurrencies look promising.

If you are looking to invest in cryptocurrencies, you will be bombarded by the available options on the market. However, you have to choose the right coin that will return a reward on time. So, in this article, we’ll focus on altcoins that are currently selling for less than USD 1 but with a promising outlook. We have chosen these coins because of three considerations: market demand, price, and utility.

So, let’s look at the best altcoins under $1:

BitTorrent (BTT)

BitTorrent (BTT) is arguably the most popular sharing platform in the world. It enables content creators to interact with their audience while allowing all players to spend cryptocurrency, without involving third parties. So, with BTT, authors can deliver their content to their audiences without relying on any intermediary.

The important news is the new venture between BitTorrent and Tron. By connecting the Tron blockchain with BitTorrent’s P2P system, developers anticipate scaling new heights in 2020. So, if you’re an investor, this is the coin to watch. What’s more, it is currently retailing at less than $1.

Quantstamp (QSP)

Quantstamp is a security audit protocol designed to address the security loopholes inherent in making Ethereum smart contracts. The platform runs automated security checks on the Ethereum platform, and every Ethereum smart contract must use it to perform security audits. The protocol provides a monthly airdrop of new coins to its long-term investors.

The coin is currently trading at low than USD 1, and it is a good bet for investors who intend to reap big in the future.

Ardor (ARDR)

Ardor is the new entrant in the burgeoning list of blockchain as a service provider. It provides businesses and institutions with blockchain infrastructure to leverage on without necessarily developing their custom blockchain.

Because it provides customized blockchains that are ready for use by businesses, it is the coin to watch in 2020, as it will serve millions of companies.

IOTA (MIOTA)

IOTA was launched by the IOTA foundation, with the principal objective being on blockchain. In 2018, the foundation launched its currency and data marketplace. Specifically, the data marketplace is a system that allows companies to sell data to encourage data sharing. The exciting aspect of this marketplace is that it is blockless, meaning that it eliminates the constraints of transaction fees. The IOTA coin is currently retailing at less than $1.

IoTeX (IOTX)

While the Internet of Things is attracting several players with IOTA being the most popular one, IoTeX is another player with a promising future. The blockchain uses root methods with varying sidechains to connect IoT gadgets based on their peculiar features. Unlike IOTA, which relies on DAG, IOTX uses the Roll-DPoS with advanced staking. Also, IOTX provides high security.

In 2020, IOTX intends to launch its global-access main net. With this development, we expect that the price of the coin will soar. So, for investors, IOTX is the coin to watch.

Cardano (ADA)

Cardano is one auspicious coin with a lot of room to grow, thanks to its smart contract platform. It provides a system for developing financial applications with an emphasis on security. Moreover, its developers are working hard to upgrade its Daedalus Walletto make it functional for any transaction. Currently, the coin is among the top 10 in terms of market capitalization. Because it is currently trading at less than $1, it is a coin that any investor seeking to make money in 2020 should consider.

Basic Attention Token (BAT)

Basic Attention Token (BAT) is a decentralized ecosystem that unites publishers, advertisers, and users. It promises to revolutionize the advertising industry by ensuring that all three participants get consistent profits and results. Under the ecosystem, users will be paid to see the ads that interest them, while publishers will get revenues from each advertisement. Advertisers will also get high ROI since users will not block ads.

In November, Brave Software made some exciting news that makes BAT a coin to watch in 2020. It officially launched its privacy-centric web browser Brave. And, technical indicators show that its native currency, BAT, is likely to go bullish in 2020.

OmiseGO (OMG)

Founded in 2017, OmiseGO is headquartered in Bangkok, Thailand. It was established to provide access to secure financial services and to exchange digital currencies anywhere and at any time.

The developers of the coin intend to make the OMG coin acceptable and convenient to use, just like BTC. Considering the high popularity of crypto in Asia, the coin is likely to get bullish in the coming days. Furthermore, it is currently trading at less than USD 1, thereby making it a coin to watch in 2020.

THETA (THETA)

THETA is a gaming token that focuses on decentralized video streaming and sharing. Gamers pay for bandwidth using tokens. With streaming services gaining a lot of popularity, 2020 will likely see more usage and an appreciation in the price of THETA token. Moreover, Theta’s partnerships with SLIVER.tv, Samsung VR, and MBN will take it to new heights in 2020. SLIVER.tv currently has more than 1 million viewers.

Pundi X (NPXS)

Pundi X (NPXS) is a transaction system that is highly accepted by SMEs. It enables them to transact with cryptocurrency using a simple tap to pay mode. The seller and buyer can use digital coins for their transactions. Also, they can use the system to buy other coins, such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, ERC20 tokens, among others. Moreover, the NPXS system can allow you to top up your card with fiat currency.

The coin is currently trading low, and since SMEs highly accept it, it promises to revolutionize the market in 2020.

Conclusion

As 2020 beckons, investors should think about the new opportunities presented by the best altcoins under $1 discussed above. Of course, it’s not possible to analyze all the promising coins in a single guide. We also have no guarantees on these coins because market dynamics may change overnight. And for the record, our list isn’t exhaustive. So, as a trader, try to analyze the altcoins on your own, too. You can also follow the market trends using automatic trading software such as Bitcoin Trader, which will help you increase your daily profits.

Featured image: bitcoinist.com