DATE:  22.03.2020, 13:59:51
TITLE: Opera Browser now allows to Buy, Spend Bitcoin and Ethereum using Debit Card, Apple Pay
URL:   https://www.indianweb2.com/2020/03/22/opera-browser-with-built-in-crypto-wallet-now-allows-buying-bitcoin-using-debit-card-apple-pay/

Freeware browser Opera, which is the first major browser to introduce a built-in crypto wallet in July 2018, is now introducing another feature allowing its users in the US and Scandinavia easily purchase cryptocurrencies using a debit card or Apple Pay.

Easy crypto top-ups are available in Opera;s flagship Android browser, its iOS browser Opera Touch as well as in the crypto wallet available in its desktop browser. The integrated solution is available in the United States and Scandinavia.

Developed by Opera Software AS, a Norwegian software company, Opera’s strategy is to eliminate the hurdles associated with the use of cryptocurrencies on the Web. In December 2018, Opera introduced the first blockchain-enabled browser “Opera for Android” with a built-in crypto wallet and Dapp explorer.

Opera is tying-up with US-based cryptocurrency infrastructure provider Wyre, which allows transactions on Apple devices works seamlessly with Apple Pay, making it possible to top up an account in less than 30 seconds. Opera Android users in the US can now buy BTC and ETH using a debit card. iOS users can simply use Apple Pay.

Later, it added a built-in crypto wallet to its desktop browser as well as to its iOS browser, Opera Touch. It later introduced easy crypto-purchases in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, and is now expanding them to the United States.

Charles Hamel, Head of Crypto at Opera browsers, explained how this integration supports Opera’s long-term vision of making blockchain technology relevant beyond speculation: “Allowing our users to easily load cryptocurrency into their browser’s digital wallet is very powerful, as it connects the Web to a global internet-native payment network.”

Source ~ Press.Opera.com

Like this content? Sign up for our daily newsletter to get latest updates.