DATE:  22.03.2020, 22:30:06
TITLE: While You're Under Quarantine, Check These Sites for Remote Crypto Jobs
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/while-youre-under-quarantine-check-these-sites-for-remote-crypto-jobs/

While You're Under Quarantine, Check These Sites for Remote Crypto Jobs

If you are on the lookout for a job in these pressing times, when the coronavirus pandemic has limited public movement and shut down businesses, it’s worth exploring opportunities to work from the relative safety of your home. The number of people doing so globally has been steadily growing, including in the crypto industry which is more decentralized than other sectors.

Also read: 10 Loan Providers Taking Crypto as Collateral, If You Think the Time Is Right for Hodling

Working From Home Is Healthier and More Productive

Remote jobs have been on the rise over the past few years. Stats gathered by Virtual Vocations, for example, show a 197% increase in such roles in the company’s database between 2015 and 2019. New openings registered by the telecommuting jobs platform grew by 25% last year, according to its latest annual report. Another source, an analysis conducted by Flexjobs and Global Workplace Analytics, points to a 44% increase of Americans working remotely in the last five years. The study also suggests that remote workers are more productive, better paid and healthier.

Although it’s difficult to precisely estimate the share of remote employees, all jobs in the cryptocurrency and blockchain industry, where this type of employment arrangement is popular, were generally growing last year and in early 2020, as news.Bitcoin.com reported. With restrictions due to the global covid-19 epidemic hitting other sectors hard, the crypto space may be affected too. The decentralized nature of the business, however, is likely to limit the damage to a certain extent. Working from home definitely has certain advantages in that respect.

Platforms Listing Remote Jobs in the Crypto Space

If you are looking for a remote job in the crypto sector, a number of job posting sites will help you find the right vacancy. You can try established platforms such as Indeed.com, a global leader among employment-related search engines with over 250 million monthly visitors. Entering keywords like “cryptocurrency” and “blockchain” in the ‘What’ box and then specifying “remote” under ‘Where’ will return dozens of ads with detailed descriptions. Multiple filtering options are also available for you to select the positions you may be interested in.

Cryptocurrencyjobs.co is a specialized platform for job seekers in the crypto space that allows companies to post job ads and seekers to find their next occupation. When searching for an opening, select “Remote” under Location and you’ll be offered over 100 current blockchain jobs you can work from distance, including from well-known companies in the industry such as Binance, Xapo, and Bitrefill. Crypto.jobs is a similar website, with almost 1,800 ads at the time of writing, and a dedicated Remote Jobs section. Cryptojobslist.com has published over 1,000 postings and you can filter the remote positions too. Cryptojobslist.com is another popular option for cryptocurrency careers.

Another website that can help you to start or continue a blockchain career is Blockew.com. You can pull a decent list of remote jobs in the Job Opportunities menu where you’ll find ads from Kraken, Brave, and other familiar crypto brands. And if you are looking for a source that’s entirely devoted to remote working options, you should go to Remoteok.io which claims to have the largest collection of remote jobs for digital nomads. You’ll find many offers from blockchain companies among over 39,000 listed vacancies. Freelancers with interest and background in the cryptosphere can also check out platforms such as Freelance for Coins and Blocklancer.net for jobs that pay with cryptocurrencies.

What other websites posting remote jobs would you recommend? Let us know in the comments below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Use Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash to play online casino games here.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.