DATE:  18.01.2020, 20:40:40
TITLE: Crypto Employment Abounds With More Than 8,000 Jobs in 2020
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/crypto-employment-abounds-with-more-than-8000-jobs-in-2020/

Crypto Employment Abounds With More Than 8,000 Jobs in 2020

During the last year, the cryptoconomy has picked up pace after a drawn out crypto winter. When market prices were low and startups were short on capital, a bunch of firms laid off employees in 2018. A year later, and digital currency companies are hiring.

Also read: Regulatory Roundup: EU-Wide Crypto Regulations, New Rules in Europe, US, Asia

Following Thousands of Lay Offs, Crypto Companies Start Hiring Again

Cryptocurrency and blockchain-related jobs are becoming more abundant these days as the industry seems to be recovering from last year’s price lows. During the North American Bitcoin Conference (TNABC), news.Bitcoin.com noted that there were at least six companies hiring in the exhibit halls. Searching online shows a great number of jobs are available on employment listing sites like Indeed, Monster, and Crypto-Careers.com.

While searching worldwide for the term “cryptocurrency,” the job site Monster has 118 roles available. There are even more jobs available on Monster when searching the term “blockchain” – 2,558. The online employment search engine Indeed shows 521 cryptocurrency-related jobs and 1,938 blockchain careers available.

Crypto-Careers.com shows 234 cryptocurrency job opportunities and 409 results for blockchain work. While perusing through all of the aforementioned job sites, the most wanted job within the cryptosphere right now is developers. All kinds of developers are needed from front end to back end, website designers, and engineers who can code with a variety of programming languages.

According to Indeed, Shapeshift is hiring a security engineer to help identify and mitigate risks for the firm. The job comes with full benefits and has a starting pay of around $80,000 to $120,000. Binance is hiring an Android developer to work for the company’s subsidiary Trust Wallet. The EOS-based Block.one is hiring out of Virginia and needs someone who can program in C++ and work on EOSIO blockchain software. The ICE-owned marketplace Bakkt which offers physically-settled bitcoin futures products is also hiring a blockchain developer.

There’s More Than 8,000 Crypto and Blockchain-Related Jobs Available in 2020

On the career website Linkedin, Fidelity Investments is looking to hire bitcoin mining engineers in multiple locations across the U.S. According to Blockchain.com, the company is hiring “numerous roles” and employees can work remotely. For Blockchain.com’s London, San Francisco, and Vilnius offices the firm is looking for an Android engineer, data scientist, and front end developer.

Browsing Crypto-Careers.com, Monster, Indeed, and Linkedin shows there’s a plethora of non-developer jobs. Employment opportunities consist of jobs like analysts, marketers, writers, journalists, product managers and consultants. For instance, the popular tech firm Cisco is hiring a blockchain consultant who understands computer networking technologies. Well known digital currency businesses like Bitgo, Coinbase, Square Crypto, Kraken, and the Bitcoin Depot are also hiring.

Also Bitcoin.com has listed a few unique cryptocurrency positions. One particular position available is for a senior Javascript lead engineer. The person applying for the job can work remotely, but Bitcoin.com would prefer someone from New York or London. The applicant needs a minimum of three years developing cryptocurrencies and a passion for the decentralized crypto bitcoin cash. Additionally, the lead engineer is required to have more than eight years of experience with Javascript. At the time of writing, Bitcoin.com is looking to fill 10 positions with jobs like an advertising account executive, full-stack developer, head of DevOps, iOS developer, product designer, marketing manager, and a senior product manager. If you’re interested in working within the crypto industry check out Bitcoin.com’s employment opportunities today.

Between the top four online employment websites, there are more than 8,000 cryptocurrency and blockchain jobs available today. There’s a wide variety of different employment opportunities but the developer job is by far the most in-demand and the highest-paid as well. The large number of crypto companies and financial institutions willing to hire right now is a stark contrast to the thousands of lay-offs during the crypto winter.

What do you think about the 8,000+ crypto and blockchain jobs available in 2020? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Indeed, Linkedin, Monster, Crypto-Careers.com, Fair Use, Wiki Commons, Bitcoin.com Careers, and Pixabay.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.