DATE:  14.11.2019, 22:00:26
TITLE: Instant Crypto Exchange Changelly Secures Access to SLP Tokens
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/instant-crypto-exchange-changelly-secures-access-to-slp-tokens/

Instant Crypto Exchange Changelly Secures Access to SLP Tokens

Instant cryptocurrency exchange Changelly will start to use digital asset rates from Bitcoin.com’s trading platform. This will ensure better prices for Changelly users and help increase the reach of all SLP tokens that are exclusively listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange.

Also Read: Universal Protocol Alliance to List Mega-Utility Token on Bitcoin.com Exchange

Changelly to Use Rates From Bitcoin.com Exchange

Bitcoin.com Exchange has announced a new strategic partnership with instant cryptocurrency platform Changelly. The integration of the services will allow Changelly users to gain access to the market rates provided by Bitcoin.com Exchange, wherein Changelly will act as a broker between the exchange and its own users. Changelly’s API will pick up rates from the Bitcoin.com Exchange platform and provide them in real-time directly to its users so they can buy crypto and instantaneously swap between different cryptocurrencies at the best rates available.

The integration with Changelly will also help increase the reach for all SLP tokens that are exclusively listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange. The Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) is a system built on the Bitcoin Cash network for creating tokens in a permissionless manner. It has helped the development of an ecosystem for BCH that replicates the variety of ERC20 tokens on the Ethereum network. SLP tokens can easily be created, traded, and managed on the Bitcoin Cash blockchain within seconds, with minuscule costs for each transaction. Support for SLP tokens will also soon be added to the official Bitcoin.com Wallet.

“I am pleased to announce our newest partnership with exchange.Bitcoin.com. The Bitcoin.com community is one I have always been a very big fan of, and now our customers will have much better access to bitcoin cash and SLP projects with the launch of their new exchange,” stated Changelly CEO Eric Benz. “Providing the community with the most efficient means to purchase and swap crypto is our goal and mission above all else, and with exchange.Bitcoin.com we are continuing to fulfill our mission by making our services easier for our user-base, and effectively more wide-reaching.”

Changelly has been operating as an instant cryptocurrency exchange service since 2015 and offers access to more than 150 cryptocurrencies on the market. Its website attracts over a million visitors monthly and the platform offers an official mobile app as well as an API which dozens of crypto businesses use to add the instant swap feature to their services. Bitcoin.com Exchange was launched on Sep. 2 as an easy-to-use trading platform that offers world-class security and a powerful trading engine.

New Token Listings on Bitcoin.com Exchange

Bitcoin.com Exchange is set to offer trading on Sideshift.ai’s native SAI token on Friday November 15 at 11:00AM CET. The Sideshift platform is powered by SAI that exists simultaneously as an ERC20, a token on the liquid platform as well as an SLP token. According to the listing announcement, the total token supply amounts to 210 million SAI and no further tokens will ever be minted. Currently, SAI is used to pay up to 50% of revenue back to affiliates. In the future, Sideshift is considering implementing further value-enhancing activities like a buyback and burn, paying stakeholders in SAI, and implementing merchant discounts.

Sideshift has created a system where users can switch between more than 20 different cryptocurrencies and anyone with an access code can start swapping immediately. It came to prominence back when Shapeshift introduced a mandatory membership program. The service is also fully integrated with the Bitcoin.com Wallet which today achieved a major milestone with over 5 million wallets created since the app launched just a little over two years ago.

It was also recently announced that Bitcoin.com Exchange will provide an initial exchange listing to support an interoperable mega-utility token backed by the Universal Protocol Alliance, the Universal Protocol Token (UPT). The new UPT token is expected to be on listed Nov. 20, 2019, and will be available for trading by non-U.S. persons only.

What do you think about Changelly using rates from Bitcoin.com Exchange and the new listings on the platform? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.