DATE:  28.01.2020, 11:33:00
TITLE: Coronavirus: Claims deadly virus is ‘good for bitcoin’ may be confused
URL:   https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/features/bitcoin-price-coronavirus-outbreak-china-cryptocurrency-trump-impeachment-a9304696.html

It is not even February and it feels like more news has happened since the start of 2020 than the whole of 2019 combined. The beginning of the new decade has seen Donald Trump play World War Three Chicken with Iran, Australia catch on fire amid dire climate forecasts, a US presidential impeachment trial, plagues of locusts devastate vast regions of Africa, and now the outbreak of a deadly virus from China.

For some cryptocurrency analysts and enthusiasts, moments of global crisis and geopolitical turmoil have become an opportunity to explain the notoriously volatile price of bitcoin.

The phenomenon has even inspired a popular meme, whereby a negative or seemingly unconnected event is arbitrarily attributed to the value of the cryptocurrency.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

The 'This is good for bitcoin' theory states that during times of uncertainty, investors look to non-sovereign assets and currencies in order to safeguard their wealth.

For those that adhere to the belief that bitcoin is a safe-haven asset, it therefore may seem like no coincidence that its price has performed exceptionally well throughout the chaos of 2020, increasing its value by nearly a third since the start of the year.

Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Show all 8 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters

Now, its price appears to be climbing in direct correlation with increasing fears over the global coronavirus epidemic.

Bitcoin has risen in price every day since Wuhan was placed under quarantine on 23 January, gaining nearly 10 per cent in value in less than a week. At around $9,000, it is currently trading at its highest level since November.

Other cryptocurrencies have also followed suit, with ethereum (ether), ripple (XRP) and bitcoin cash all experiencing considerable gains since the start of the outbreak.

"Prices jumped to near three-month highs following turbulence on traditional stock markets, reinforcing cryptocurrency's growing position as a possible safe haven investment," said Simon Peters, an analysts at the online trading platform eToro.

"Cryptocurrencies seem to be mimicking the reaction seen in gold, the classic safe haven, which has also soared in recent days due to fears that the coronavirus is now spreading globally."

Similar conclusions were made earlier in January amid growing tensions between the US and Iran, as well as in August during the escalating trade war between the US and China.

Despite this, there is little research to actually support the theory that such events are related to bitcoin's fortunes. Market movements have instead been connected to developments within the cryptocurrency industry, such as favourable regulation being introduced, or rumours that a country is developing its own cryptocurrency.

Its value has also been pinned to the whims of traders who own large volumes of bitcoin, known as whales.

Cryptocurrency author David Gerard claims the cryptocurrency market is "rife with insider trading" and that a number of whales "have colluded for years" in order to manipulate its price.

"The bitcoin price is a game for whales to wreck the smaller players," he wrote in a 2019 blog post.

"Anyone who claims the bitcoin price is in any way organic, or follows real-world events, is simply talking nonsense."