DATE:  28.01.2020, 06:00:00
TITLE: Launching the ATM Industry into a new era
URL:   https://www.atmmarketplace.com/blogs/launching-the-atm-industry-into-a-new-era/

It's astounding that after 21 years the annual ATMIA US event just keeps growing, with a sold out exhibition hall and record level registrations. This strong industry response indicates that the US ATM industry is poised for continued growth, not to mention innovation. In fact, 2020 promises, in our view, to be a gateway year to a new future for a reinvented ATM.

In that context, the theme of this year's conference — Feb. 11-13 in Houston — sets the right tone: "Launching the ATM Industry into a New Era." The Consortium for Next Gen ATMs, now including over 285 companies participating in the biggest future-proofing exercise in decades, hosts an in-person meeting on the morning before the conference gets under way, followed by an afternoon workshop examining both the business case and the technology of Next Gen ATMs. The conference program will also include a number of sessions addressing the future of the industry.

Branch transformation is a related topic that will be the focus of another pre-conference workshop. Industry experts will explore the many different aspects of the "future branch." Workshop content will be tied together through presentation of a case study, illustrating the positive impact of such projects.

What about bitcoin?

There was considerable interest in our program this year by bitcoin and cryptocurrency providers. Delegates attending the workshop and sessions will learn about opportunities, as well as the regulatory hurdles that might present themselves.

Previous conference educational programs have been structured around topic-based "tracks," such as payments and deposits, security and risk management, business management, etc. The program this year has been restructured into just three stakeholder-based tracks; Financial Institutions, IAD/ISO, and the ATM Industry — content that will likely be of most interest to financial institutions, and so on.

Cash access

Access to cash for all demographic groups is a currently a hot bi-partisan issue in the US, with a broadening out of bans on cashless retail outlets, and Next Gen ATMs aim to dispense cash in pre-staged transactions taking under 10 seconds. Cash is always a focal point at ATMIA conference, and this year is no exception The ATMIA Member Town Hall meeting addresses "The right to choose cash." Numerous sessions on both Wednesday and Thursday will examine trends in the use of cash, cash management, and cash in the digital world.

The final day consists of sessions, which will appeal to all sectors of the industry, featuring industry leaders like Ed West, CEO of Cardtronics.

Our industry is on a mission to reinvent itself for the mobile-digital age, so it's appropriate for us to be in America's Space City, where we have a solution for continued growth of the industry for the foreseeable future. Our keynote speaker to kick off what promises to be our most successful event ever is the legendary NASA flight controller and author of Failure is Not an Option — Gene Kranz.

Houston, we have a solution. See you there!