DATE:  09.06.2019, 12:20:34
TITLE: Create a Custom BCH Address With Vanity.cash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/create-a-custom-bch-address-with-vanity-cash/

Create a Custom BCH Address With Vanity.cash

A vanity address can be useful in various situations. If you have a business, for example, you can incorporate its name into a bitcoin cash address you regularly use for payments. Vanity.cash is a platform that will help you create custom BCH addresses in a few easy steps.

Also read: Find a Job Paid With BCH Using Workingforbitcoins.com

How to Generate a Vanity Bitcoin Cash Address

Vanity.cash will allow you to create public addresses in both BCH address format and BTC (legacy) format. The first requires you to start with a lowercase character which can be ‘q’, ‘p’, ‘r’, or ‘z’, and then type in the prefix you want to have for your public address. You can enter any letter or number except for ‘b’, ‘i’, ‘o’, and ‘1’. Legacy addresses can be generated using letters and numbers other than ‘0’, ‘O’, ‘l’, and ‘I’.

You can build an address in the BCH format starting with ‘q’ and continuing with the word ‘cash’, for instance. A short prefix like that will probably cost you nothing. Click the “Get it for free” button at the bottom of the page and you’ll be prompted to choose between two options, ‘compressed’ or ‘uncompressed.’ Then you have to provide an email address where you’ll receive a secure link to your key once it’s generated. Longer phrases would require you to pay for the service with bitcoin cash.

Follow the link to retrieve your custom public address and private key. The Vanity.cash platform is powered by Coin Dance Vanity and you’ll be redirected to a page on its platform. Make sure you have saved your key before leaving it. No one will be able to recover it for you once you’ve closed the tab. While on that page, you can also view the QR codes for the address and the key.

If you need step-by-step guidance on importing private keys into cryptocurrency wallets, you can refer to a tutorial covering popular wallet apps or google “How to import private key into…” adding the name of your wallet. Using Vanity.cash, you can also create custom addresses and keys in a trustless manner. That requires more advanced knowledge and the platform provides a link to a detailed guide.

You can also use the Cash Address Converter developed by Bitcoin.com, an online tool that allows you to convert a Bitcoin Cash address into either the Cashaddr format or the Legacy format. You’ll find more free and useful BCH tools when you visit our Bitcoin Tools page.

What other vanity address platforms do you know or use? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Vanity.cash.

Do you need a reliable Bitcoin mobile wallet to send, receive, and store your coins? Download one for free from us and then head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can quickly buy Bitcoin with a credit card.