DATE:  31.05.2019, 08:21:55
TITLE: Bitcoin tycoon and wife arrested after death of teenage model insist they are innocent
URL:   https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-7087411/Bitcoin-tycoon-wife-arrested-death-teenage-model-insist-innocent.html

A bitcoin millionaire and his wife, who have been in hiding for 18 months, have spoken of their three-in-a-bed sex session with a teenage model on the night she plunged to her death in Malaysia.

In their first interview since they went to ground, Alex and Luna Johnson told MailOnline of their sorrow over the death of Dutch model Ivana Smit, whose naked body was found 14 storeys below their balcony in December 2017.

They insisted that they had nothing to do with her death, saying that they have left behind their party lifestyle after a 'witch hunt' that saw them questioned by police in Kuala Lumpur.

Scroll down for video

Alex Johnson, right, and his wife Luna, left, go for a stroll in Miami where they now live

The couple, pictured, have been in hiding for 18 months since they were accused of murder

Teenage model Ivana Smit was found naked on the ground outside an apartment in Kuala Lumpur. She had been at an apartment belonging to cryptocurrency trader Alexander Johnson and his Indonesian model wife Luna

Ivana Smit, pictured, plunged to her death in December 2017 in Kuala Lumpur

The husband and wife were arrested when Miss Smit’s naked body was found 200ft beneath their apartment after a wild night out.

The Johnsons were arrested, and while their daughter went to live with her nanny, they spent two weeks in custody, suspected of drug use and breaching immigration rules.

They were released without charge. Blood tests showed no trace of drugs, and their visas were in order. However, a post-mortem showed Ivana had taken cocaine and alcohol, and had high levels of PMMA – an amphetamine sometimes sold as ecstasy.

The Johnsons strongly denied that they gave the model drugs or took some themselves on the night of her death.

Two police inquests established the cause of death as accidental, but a subsequent autopsy in Holland suggested that bruising to Miss Smit's arms and head had been sustained before she fell from the balcony.

The couple did not attend the inquest to give evidence over the death and left Malaysia for Singapore before arriving in the USA, moving from address to address across the country, through Georgia and into Florida.

Mr Johnson said: ‘We had unequivocally nothing to do with her passing.'

The bereaved family is convinced that her death was no accident and is preparing a private law suit against the Johnsons.

The couple said they were also taking legal advice to try and disprove what they said were false and fabricated claims against them.

Revealing the details of their sexual relationship with the teenager, Mrs Johnson, 32, said: ‘Ivana was our friend and we both had relationships with her. She came with us willingly that night. I wished I had more time to know her. I lost a friend.’

Her 45-year-old husband added: ‘We have enjoyed the company of other women over the course of our marriage.

‘I honestly don’t give a s*** what anybody thinks any more. We are numb to it… We have had a year and a half of this. We have lost everything and started over again. I don’t care anymore.’

The Johnsons were not arrested a second time but have been targeted on social media with death threats and an attempt to kidnap their young daughter.

The nightmare started after the couple went out drinking in Bangsar, a city 20 miles away from their apartment in Kuala Lumpur.

CCTV uncovered by MailOnline showed Mr Johnson carrying Ivana out of a nightclub shortly after 5am, with his wife following behind. The trio were then seen getting into a lift to the couple's apartment.

The two women were pictured together in a selfie Miss Smit sent to her boyfriend Lukas Kramer at 7.25am, two-and-a-half hours before police say she died.

Police believe that at 10am Miss Smit plunged from the Johnson's 20th-story balcony and landed on a six-story roof. Texas-born Mr Johnson and his wife insisted they were asleep at the time. Her body was not found until around 3pm that day.

The couple was arrested and held in separate cells, but released after giving statements and being tested for drugs. Unable to distance themselves from the case, they left Malaysia.

Mr Johnson, a millionaire bitcoin trader in Kuala Lumpur and the founder of Everus World, a cryptocurrency company, said his business faltered and the couple ended up fleeing Malaysia after fearing for their safety.

They both blocked their social media profiles, saying they had received a sinister phone call threatening to kidnap their child before they left Malaysia.

‘We got scared and we haven't been able to live our lives freely,’ said Kazakh-born Mrs Johnson, adding that her online digital marketing business had also closed down.

The couple, who admit they 'partied hard' in their youth, travelled through Asia until they finally ended up in Miami.

Mr Johnson now runs his company out of their apartment, trading in bitcoin currency with markets in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia.

Mr Johnson said: ‘We have had our experiences and partied with narcotics. But when our daughter was born six years ago, we pulled away from the entire nightlife scene.

‘Once in a while we would dip our toe in and come out and that was one of those nights when we dipped our toes in. Prior to our daughter, we’d go out six nights a week.’

They say they have curtailed their lifestyle and now only have a handful of close friends in Miami, venturing out to the park and their local school.