DATE:  31.05.2019, 13:12:23
TITLE: Bitcoin tycoon and wife break silence over model’s mystery death to admit they had threesome but deny murder
URL:   https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/9192743/bitcoin-tycoon-model-ivana-smit-death/

A BITCOIN tycoon and his glamorous wife have broken their silence over the night a young Dutch model plunged 14 floors to her death shortly after the group engaged in a threesome.

The naked body of 18-year-old Ivana Smit was found on the sixth floor balcony of the ritzy upmarket Kuala Lumpur high rise in December 2017.

12 Model Ivana Smit's naked body was found on the sixth floor balcony of a Kuala Lumpur high rise in December 2017 Credit: Viral Press

12 Alexander Amado Johnson, 45, left, and his Indonesian wife, Luna, 32, right, insist they had nothing to do with the model's death Credit: Instagram

BROKEN SILENCE

American cryptocurrency millionaire Alexander Amado Johnson, 45, and his Indonesian wife, Luna, 32, have been in hiding for 18 months since Smit's body was discovered 14 storeys below their balcony.

Speaking to MailOnline on Friday, the couple insisted that they had nothing to do with her death and have been subjected to a 'witch hunt' that saw them questioned by police in Kuala Lumpur.

They did, however, acknowledge they had a sexual relationship with the model, including a joint sex session on the night she died.

We are numb to it… We have lost everything and started over again. I don’t care anymore." Alex Johnson

Luna Johnson confided: "Ivana was our friend and we both had relationships with her. She came with us willingly that night. I wished I had more time to know her. I lost a friend."

Her husband added: "We have enjoyed the company of other women over the course of our marriage.

"I honestly don’t give a s*** what anybody thinks any more.

"We are numb to it… We have had a year and a half of this. We have lost everything and started over again. I don’t care anymore."



ARREST & RELEASE

The couple were arrested and spent two weeks in custody, suspected of drug use and breaching immigration rules.

They were released without charge with blood tests showing no trace of drugs, and checks concluding their visas were in order.

Over the past 18 months, the pair left Malaysia for Singapore before arriving in the USA where they moved from address to address, through Georgia and into Florida.

Police believe Ivana plunged from the Johnson's 20th-story balcony around 10am.

Her body wasn't discovered until 3pm that day, and her underwear and shoes still have not been recovered.

The couple insisted they were asleep at the time.

'NO CRIME COMMITTED'

A post-mortem found Ivana had taken cocaine and alcohol, and had high levels of an amphetamine.

An additional autopsy in Holland suggested bruising on the body had been sustained before she fell from the balcony and evidence of a struggle was also confirmed by a Malaysian coroner.

We had unequivocally nothing to do with her passing." Alex Johnson

In March this year, the same coroner ruled no crime had been committed and two police inquests established the cause of death as accidental.

Ivana's family have said they suspect foul play and are said to be preparing a private law suit against the Johnsons.

Mr Johnson said: "We had unequivocally nothing to do with her passing."

MOST READ IN NEWS LOCALS FIRST No Tenerife holidays till October as chiefs 'want locals to have break first' Exclusive TAKING THE PPE Brit boss slams Govt for snubbing his offer of millions of PPE a MONTH ago TRAGIC END Dad, 21, with 'warm & loving heart' kills himself after struggling with lockdown HARD TO STOMACH You could suffer from ‘gastro coronavirus' - a lesser known version of bug BLAME GAME China is 'pumping out fake news to deflect blame for coronavirus outbreak' HOTTING UP Britain set to be hotter than Lanzarote with 24C temperatures and sunshine

Johnson, a millionaire bitcoin trader in Kuala Lumpur and the founder of Everus World, a cryptocurrency company, said his business has suffered.

He now runs his company out of their apartment, trading in bitcoin currency with markets in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia.

The couple say they have been attacked over social media and received threats their child would be kidnapped.

12 Alex Johnson, right, and his Indonesian wife Luna, left, have admitted to having a sexual relationship with the model Credit: Facebook

12 Ivana plunged from the Persiaran Capsquare apartment block in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

12 Cameras in a Kuala Lumpur club appear to show Johnson carrying Ivana through the hall toward an elevator bank

12 Despite acknowledging that a struggle had taken place, the coroner said no crime had been committed Credit: Social Media - Refer to Source

12 The coroner also ruled Ivana was dead before she fell Credit: Instagram

12 Ivana was drinking gin and tonic partying in the hours leading up to her death Credit: Social Media - Refer to Source

12 Local cops say Ivana's death was a booze and drug-fuelled accident Credit: Viral Press

12 Ivana's family say they do not believe her death was suicide or accident Credit: Instagram

12 Sankara Nair, lawyer for Ivana Smit's family, speaks to the press at Kuala Lumpur High Court Credit: AP:Associated Press

12 Dutch media say the model and married couple were having a drug fulled swingers party Credit: Instagram

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.