DATE:  31.05.2019, 10:01:39
TITLE: Cryptocurrencyalerting.com Will Notify You of Price Movements
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/cryptocurrencyalerting-com-will-notify-you-of-price-movements/

Cryptocurrencyalerting.com Will Notify You of Price Movements

With volatility returning to cryptocurrency markets, being regularly updated about price changes is important if you want to be a successful trader. To take advantage of market movements, you need timely alerts and a website called Cryptocurrencyalerting.com can help you get them through various channels.

Also read: Share Bitcoin Cash Related Shortlinks Using BCH.gg

Website Tracks Over 5,000 Coins for You

Cryptocurrency Alerting is a platform that provides you with the opportunity to create multiple customized alerts on market prices, percentage movements and exchange listings. It also offers wallet watch and mempool size monitoring features for some cryptocurrencies.

The website tracks over 5,000 coins and tokens, including bitcoin cash (BCH), and you can be notified when a cryptocurrency you are interested in goes above or below a certain price point. You’ll be able to set the price target in a number of major fiat currencies and stablecoins, as well as BTC and ETH.

Alternatively, you can track percentage price changes and receive alerts when the price of a crypto moves up or down by a certain percent within a predefined time period, which can be from five minutes to 24 hours. This way you won’t miss the next price breakout.

You can choose among 26 digital asset exchanges, including Coinbase, Binance and Kraken, when customizing your price alerts. You can also get notifications when a particular coin has been listed on a platform you are trading on.

Cryptocurrencyalerting allows you to choose from nine different ways to receive your crypto alerts. The platform supports notifications via SMS, email, phone call, push and browser notifications, Telegram, Discord and Slack bots.

To use the automated alerts provided by Cryptocurrencyalerting.com, you need to sign up using a valid email address and create a password for your account. The website accepts cryptocurrency donations to maintain its services.

To stay informed about the current prices of crypto assets, you can also regularly check Bitcoin Markets. The aggregator developed by Bitcoin.com provides real-time data on the prices and valuations of the top 500 digital currencies by market cap. Also, check out our Bitcoin Charts page.

Are you using automated price alerts to keep track of cryptocurrency markets? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Cryptocurrencyalerting.com.

You can now purchase Bitcoin without visiting a cryptocurrency exchange. Buy BCH and BTC directly from our trusted seller and, if you need a Bitcoin wallet to securely store it, you can download one from us here.