DATE:  10.04.2020, 15:15:48
TITLE: $8 Trillion Asset Giant Fidelity Expanding Bitcoin (BTC) and Crypto Trading
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/04/10/8-trillion-asset-giant-fidelity-expanding-bitcoin-btc-and-crypto-trading/

Institutional investors at Fidelity Digital Assets can now trade Bitcoin on the US-based exchange ErisX.

Through a strategic partnership designed to increase cryptocurrency exposure for big players, Fidelity’s “stable of vetted institutional investors” will have increased access to Bitcoin liquidity, according to a press release from ErisX.

Says Thomas Chippas, CEO of ErisX,

“Our time-tested and proven central limit order book ensures that the best price on the market is available to everyone.”

Adds Terrence Dempsey, head of product for FDA,

“We believe ErisX’s central limit order book exchange model is critical to the maturation of crypto markets. Coupled with their technical aptitude, accessible order sizes, and a robust regulatory framework, ErisX is an attractive solution to securely access digital assets.”

Fidelity Investments, which manages $8.3 trillion in customer assets, is an investor in ErisX. In addition to spot trading, the New York-based digital asset exchange, which is also backed by giant brokerage firm TD Ameritrade, operates a cryptocurrency futures market.

The US Commodity Futures Trading Commission granted ErisX a clearinghouse organization license last year.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/Tenth_Seal42