DATE:  10.04.2020, 02:05:13
TITLE: Bitcoin.com Games Invites You to Celebrate Easter With a 3-in-1 Promotion
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-com-games-invites-you-to-celebrate-easter-with-a-3-in-1-promotion/

Bitcoin.com Games Invites You to Celebrate Easter With a 3-in-1 Promotion

In what seems to be one of the most springtastic events of the year, Bitcoin Games has decided to celebrate this Easter with a new 3-in-1 promotion, Happy Easter, where users can play and win egg-static prizes. As spring and Easter mark a season of renewal, the latest amusement from Bitcoin Games is sure to spark merriment with the chance to surmount a stash of crypto winnings.

Also read: Latest Bitcoin.com Wallet Release Features Live Charts and Price Tracking

Happy Easter – Time to Crack Those Colorful Eggs

For a number of years, the premier source for everything bitcoin-related, Bitcoin.com has offered a variety of provably fair games for bitcoin users who want to play for high stake jackpots. Players can win big with a myriad of classic games like Roulette, Keno, Slots, and Blackjack. The latest exclusive promotion from Bitcoin Games is called ‘Happy Easter,’ which challenges players to find and crack three different eggs, each containing a unique prize. With a flurry of bonuses, cashbacks, and Free Spins, this newly launched promotion signifies the cheerful spirit of Easter and promises players some of the sweetest gifts along with a basketful of joy.

With spring in the air, at Bitcoin Games, we wanted to offer the most entertaining gameplay on the web. Easter has always been a joyous occasion and the cheerful season is often filled with games and colorful activities. “Easter bunnies are a symbol of fertility as they are known to give birth to a big litter of babies. And the bunnies in our backyard have now begun hopping around lurching on their furry paws, hiding shiny eggs enchanted with the magic of Easter,” said the lead developer in an attempt to make sense of the frolicking chaos at Bitcoin Games.

All Bitcoin Games players are invited to join the promotion between the 10th of April 2020 (00:00 GMT) and the 13th of April 2020 (23:59 GMT) to celebrate this joyous occasion. Our latest gaming portal is always filled with high stakes fun and excellent jackpot payouts. Gamers are constantly winning by leveraging a multitude of online casino games and a number of popular exclusives.

Bitcoin Games also offers a Live Casino where users can play with real players on interactive games such as Baccarat. The platform features include instant withdrawals, provably fair exclusive games, and 24/7 customer support – all without ever needing to register. Happy Easter is sure to be as exciting and tickle your gaming fancy during the three-day promotion.

Have you visited Bitcoin Games yet? If not, you should check out our fantastic gaming portal today.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons