DATE:  10.04.2020, 05:33:02
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Mother of Horus Slot by Microgaming
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-mother-of-horus-slot-by-microgaming/330205

With the enigmatic goddess, Isis Mother of Horus as the inspiration for this slot, Bitcoin Casino has added the game to its list of slots. It is a slot from Microgaming and it is set in Ancient Egypt.

Although It’s not a novel choice when it comes to the theme, apparently – the producers have ensured they include several features and some nice prizes. For this reason, there’s so much in store for every bettor to try out something new about this game.

The slot comes with 5 x 3 reels, and about 50 active lines which is a little crowded in our opinion. With this paylines, the slot pays about 2,500 times the sum staked one every free spin. Regarding the bigger features of the slot, you’ll discover a Destiny Roulette mini game, its free spins, a prize bar that can be found at the top of the reels and Nudge Wilds.

You will be asked to choose the wager for an imminent spin, and nothing else will be asked. Bets range from $0.50 to $35 per spin. Because of this, the slot provides an option to spend between $0.01 – $0.70 per line.

The slot’s highest possible pay outs comes from free spins. This way a single round can give a prize of up about 2,500 times the stake of the round. This means that the top jackpot of $87,500 is the maximum sum you can get, if you use the $35 wagers.

To add to the wins, the game also has a small game comprising a Roulette, which pay as about 500 times the sum staked or about $17,500.

With every reel getting some prize or feature talked about at the top, activating it will need the presence of Isis on the reel. However, in the base game, the symbol Isis can appear up on either reel 1, 3 or 5. On the other hand, in free spins mode, Isis will appear on the 5 reels. The prizes that you can get are cash prizes, jackpots or free spins.

Sometimes the same Isis symbol, used on the 3 reels in the base game, and on 5 reels in the course of free spins, are used as a substitute most of the time. This way, not only will it activate the prize of the reel, it will also contribute to the formation of several winning combos.

The graphic quality of this slot is not terrible neither is it top of the line. Regarding the slot’s symbols, there’s the Nudge Wild with the Scarab, the Isis Wild, together with icons like Horus, Priests, Temple Pyramid, and 5 Royals.

The features that come with Mother of Horus make it an eye-catching option, and we are quite happy with the slot’s 2,500 times top jackpot. The only downsides we can point out are the boring theme and the not too good graphics.