DATE:  10.04.2020, 12:56:41
TITLE: Generate 7 Character Vanity Address For Free
URL:   https://bitcoinik.com/generate-7-character-vanity-address-for-free/

What is Vanity Address?

A bitcoin address is a combination of alphabets and numbers. A Vanity Bitcoin address is a special or VIP type of Bitcoin address. The Vanity address contains the name/pet name/ nickname of the user. Users can also generate a Bitcoin address with special numbers and characters.

Example of a Normal Bitcoin Address: 18cBEMRxXHqzWWCxZNtU91F5sbUNKhL5PX

Suppose We want to generate a Bitcoin address for Bitcoinik, we are willing to have Bitcoin address with suffix/prefix with Bcoinik wording, then his vanity address probably will be “1BcoinikitxueGvLvSkqabHrbLd9CRK2WA”

Example of a Vanity Bitcoin Address: 1BcoinikitxueGvLvSkqabHrbLd9CRK2WA

Advatages of Vanity Address

Basically there is no difference between a simple Bitcoin address and vanity bitcoin address. Both can be used to send and receive Bitcoin from anywhere to anyone from the world. Vanity Address just gives the user a VIP impression and you can impress your friends/family or girlfreiend by using his/her name in a Bitcoin Address.

The main disadvantage of using a vanity bitcoin address is privacy. As you know Bitcoin is pseudo-anonymous and it is impossible to find the real identity behind a bitcoin address without a user mistake. If a user uses vanity Bitcoin address than the identity of the user may be exposed that’s why experts never suggest using vanity addresses for large transactions.

Generate Vanity Address For Free

It is very easy to generate a bitcoin vanity address. Users can use BitcoinVanityAddress to generate an address of your name up to 7 characters for free. There are also some other vanity generators but they only allow 5 or 6 characters address for free. If you want to generate an address greater than 7 characters than mail BitcoinVanityAddress and they will give you the instructions.

Contact Email: [email protected]

Another method to generate a vanity bitcoin address is to run the algorithm on your own network but that will consume a lot of resources (time+computation power) for big addresses.

Just Visit the BitcoinVanityAddress website and you will see the homepage like the below screenshot. Just enter the name or username that you want to add to the bitcoin address. You can generate 7 character vanity addresses for free using the platform.

Enter a valid email address and click on the generate button. You will receive an email depending on the currenct queue and length of your suffix. The longer the suffix is the more time it take. The email usually takes 1 hour to 24 hour. You will receive your private keys in the email. There is a Bitcoin Logo, click on it to see your Private keys.

Note: Your Private keys will be deleted in 15 Minutes after you click on the Bitcoin logo, make sure to save the private keys in a secure place.

The Bitcoin vanity address generator can manage 1,000 Mkeys per second. It uses a Graphical Processing Unit (GPU) power. You can use up to seven characters case sensitive for free. I have tested the other vanity generators and no other ones are free for seven characters.

Import Vanity Address

After successfully generating the vanity address, you need to import it in a bitcoin wallet to use it. There are many bitcoin wallets that will allow importing bitcoin private keys.

The best bitcoin wallets for importing bitcoin keys is Electrum Wallet. Smartphone users can use the Mycelium wallet to import private keys.

It is very easy to import private keys in the above wallets. Just download and install the wallets on your system or smartphone. Open the wallets and click on recover wallet/import wallet on the startup. Then you need to paste your private keys or scan the QR code to import your private keys. After successfully importing you will see your generated vanity address that is ready for use.