DATE:  10.04.2020, 13:19:34
TITLE: Michael Novogratz Emphasize To ‘Buy Bitcoin’
URL:   https://www.thecoinrepublic.com/2020/04/10/michael-novogratz-emphasize-to-buy-bitcoin/

Novogratz has been favoring bitcoin as an investment option and frequently tweets about the cryptocurrency.

He posted his views on Twitter by saying that the Federal Reserve is going to announce on Monday that it will buy baseball cards that were issued earlier to 2011.

Currently, Novogratz is not investing his money in the stock market. Though he did purchase Starbucks stock, he repeated that the easiest route of investment for him is gold and bitcoin.

The billionaire former Fortress Investment Group executive Michael Novogratz has always been found as a bitcoin lover and uses to share his predictions about this top coin.

Advertisement



Novogratz Always Favors Bitcoin

For quite a few days, Novogratz has been favoring bitcoin as an investment option and frequently tweets about the cryptocurrency. Recently, he posted his views on Twitter by saying that the Federal Reserve is going to announce on Monday that it will buy baseball cards that were issued earlier to 2011.

On Monday the Fed will announce it will buy baseball cards issued pre 2011. Buy $BTC. — Michael Novogratz (@novogratz) April 10, 2020

The Galaxy Chairman has always come up with its novel predictions, and so he has shared today in social media. He finds bitcoin as a winning coin and says, looking at the current market scenario, he chooses bitcoin.

The easiest route of investment for him is gold and bitcoin

Currently, Novogratz is not investing his money in the stock market. Though he did purchase Starbucks stock, he repeated that the easiest route of investment for him is gold and bitcoin.

The former hedge fund manager in his recent interview stated that he had come across many hedge fund and net worth investors that he never found before adopting bitcoin for the first time.

Looking at the COVID-19 pandemic over the digital market that made it tumble almost half of its value for the past one month. The optimist revealed through a tweet that the world is battling with this catastrophic pandemic, which made the grave economy of almost half of the globe.

It is the time when the importance of digital currency means to everyone to have a digital wallet linked to the local, state, and federal government.

This crisis really highlights how important it is for everyone to have a digital wallet that is linked to both local,state, and the federal Govt. #Crypto — Michael Novogratz (@novogratz) April 9, 2020

Though, he received just opposite responses to this statement as the traders are not finding this situation favorable for digital wallet usage. Novogratz believes that crypto will perform great within the coming months keeping aside the pandemic effect.