DATE:  10.04.2020, 14:26:28
TITLE: Partnership: $360 Mln in Bitcoin & Litecoin Up for Grab Via Google Chrome Extension
URL:   https://newslogical.com/partnership-360-mln-in-bitcoin-litecoin-up-for-grab-via-google-chrome-extension/

A partnership deal signed by Litecoin Foundation with BitcoinReawards, a Google Chrome extension member-based platform that allows cryptocurrency users spend digital assets in over 1500 online stores across the globe, has now opened users of Litecoin and Bitcoin to $360 million worth bounty when they use the platform’s new google chrome extension to make purchase online.

While the world faces an economic recession that’s principally caused by COVID-19 scourge, BitcoinRewards said it would reimburse its users who use its new platform join.BitcoinRewards.com.

After working closely with Litecoin foundation team and founder Charlie for more than a month, BitcoinReward added Litecoin to its platform for online shopping. The two teams worked closely on making Litecoin and Bitcoin more accessible to people for online shopping around the world.

The Australian registered crypto-based online platform noted that via the new platform, online users in the USA and abroad would be liable to about $2,000 USD reward per year.

BitcoinReward announced the bounty after sealing the partnership deal with Litecoin Foundation. However, the reward would encourage users of cryptocurrency while the stay at home during this period.

“There is no better time to shop online than now and earn free LTC and BTC given the current social and economic challenges facing society”, Litecoin stated.

The erstwhile engineer at Google and Director of the Litecoin Foundation, Charlie Lee, embraced the development with excitement, averring that BitcoinRewards helps make the spending of Bitcoin and Litecoin easier as it provides an innovation that let people learn and earn simultaneously.

“We’re excited to see the team from BitcoinRewards enable Litecoin and share the Litecoin Foundation’s vision of global awareness, education and adoption,” Charlee said.

BitcoinReward lets online shoppers earn between 7% to 50+% for using its new platform. The CEO of BitcoinRewards, Kahn Hood said the platform raised the bar for online shoppers with the new extension that lets them earn both Litecoin and Bitcoin.

“Existing BitcoinRewards members have traditionally enjoyed earning Bitcoin via the web platform, but the new Google Chrome extension removes additional steps, enabling online shopping enthusiasts to never miss an opportunity to earn Litecoin and Bitcoin again.”