DATE:  20.03.2019, 20:55:04
TITLE: BCH Is Now Supported by a Large Crypto ATM Network in Switzerland
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bch-is-now-supported-by-a-large-crypto-atm-network-in-switzerland/

BCH Is Now Supported by a Large Crypto ATM Network in Switzerland

Cryptocurrency ATM operator Värdex Suisse has introduced BCH support to its devices. The company is a financially regulated entity that provides access to digital assets through its teller machines, POS services and partnerships with retailers in Switzerland and abroad.

Also read: American Electronics Giant Avnet Now Accepts Bitcoin Cash Payments

Bitcoin Cash Available on All Värdex ATMs

“Bitcoin cash (BCH) is online and available now on all our ATMs!” Värdex Suisse announced in a tweet on Tuesday. The company claims it maintains the largest crypto ATM network in the Alpine nation. Its website shows 26 ATM locations in major Swiss cities such as Bern, Zurich, Geneva, Basel, Lucern, and Lausanne.

The company’s devices support the purchase and sale of three other leading cryptocurrencies as well: bitcoin core (BTC), ethereum (ETH) and litecoin (LTC).

Värdex Suisse AG, originally founded as Bitcoin Suisse AG, has been operating independently since 2017 in order to meet the high demand in the retail sector for the kind of services it offers. The company is a member of the Financial Services Standards Association (VQF) and part of the Crypto Valley Zug Community.

Värdex also says its mission is to make buying and selling digital currencies “as seamless and easy as a regular visit to a bank ATM.” It is doing that through a number of partnerships, a recent example being the recently announced crypto exchange service offered by Liechtenstein’s post office with the help of the Swiss company.

350 ATMs Across Europe Support BCH

Switzerland is one of several countries in Europe that have made efforts to create favorable conditions for crypto companies and blockchain businesses. Its Crypto Valley, centered in the Canton of Zug, has expanded significantly over the last couple of years. It currently numbers about 750 companies including those based in neighboring Liechtenstein.

The business-friendly conditions and regulations have catalyzed the growth of the crypto-related services offered in the country. They include payment and teller services providing secure access to digital coins and increasing their mainstream adoption.

According to data compiled by tracker website Coinatmradar, there are currently 52 bitcoin ATMs and crypto tellers across Switzerland. Around half of them now support purchases and sales of bitcoin cash.

The number of BCH trading devices has been growing in Europe as well, reaching around 350 across the region. However, the Old Continent is still lagging behind the U.S. where almost 1,200 ATMs offer bitcoin cash.

Is the number of ATMs supporting BCH growing in your region? Let us know in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Värdex Suisse.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can even lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.