DATE:  08.02.2020, 16:20:57
TITLE: Cryptocurrency Futures and Prediction Markets Show Trump Wins the US 2020 Election
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/cryptocurrency-futures-markets-trump-wins-election/

Cryptocurrency Futures and Prediction Markets Show Trump Wins the US 2020 Election

In less than 270 days the United States will have its 2020 election and millions of people worldwide will be betting on whether Donald Trump is reelected. Cryptocurrency participants are currently wagering their digital assets on the election outcome, where the odds on prediction markets and betting sites indicate Trump will likely win.

Also read: New Regency Television Wins Screen Rights to Onecoin Story – The Missing Cryptoqueen

Crypto Traders Are Betting Donald Trump Will Win the US 2020 Election

Whether you love him or hate him, Donald Trump gathers a lot of attention and the U.S. will be facing another presidential election soon. On February 6, the crypto trading platform FTX Exchange revealed a futures contract based on the 2020 U.S. election results. FTX is letting traders who do not live in America the chance to purchase short and long positions on Donald Trump winning the election in November. The exchange launched a token called TRUMP to represent the futures agreement. (TRUMP) is a futures contract on FTX,” the company noted. [The token] expires to $1 if Donald Trump wins the 2020 US presidential general election, and $0 otherwise.”

At the time of publication, each token is trading for $0.62, which means as of today the odds are in favor (62% chance) of Trump being reelected, according to FTX traders. The exchange FTX is not the only business running the odds and placing bets on the 2020 U.S. election. Gambling operations and bookmaking sites all over the internet are offering people the chance to bet for or against Donald Trump this year. For the most part, the odds across the board look to be in favor of Trump winning. For example, US-bookies.com disclosed at the end of 2019 that bookmakers in the country say Trump will win the election. The company researches and tracks bookmaking and gambling operations located in the U.S.

“Over the past week, Mr. Trump went from 1/1 to 10/11 to win the 2020 Presidential election,” the company stressed. Just recently the head of public relations at the UK bookmaking firm Paddy Power, Lee Price, also explained the odds are in favor of Trump winning again. “This time, he’s odds on, so, more likely than not to be reelected,” Price said.

Trump Bets Using the Prediction Market Augur and Gambling Sites That Accept Crypto for Election Wagers

Cryptocurrency users are also leveraging the prediction market Augur built on the Ethereum blockchain to bet on the election. With the Augur platform, users can create prediction markets so people can utilize the software in order to predict certain outcomes. One popular Augur market called “Who will be the 2020 Republican Nominee for president?” has $20,594 at stake and ends in nine months. According to the Augur platform, there’s a 95% chance Donald Trump will win the election in 2020.

This particular Augur market is a multiple-choice market and the website predictions.global explains “this is the predicted and winning choice.” Additionally, the second most popular prediction market on the Augur platform is also about the 2020 election. The question is: “Will Donald J. Trump be elected and be inaugurated as President of the United States for the 2021-2025 presidential term?” Augur’s prediction declares 55% say “yes” Trump will be elected and inaugurated again this year.

Besides the new FTX TRUMP futures contracts and the bets on Augur, a slew of online betting sites that are hosting election wagers also accept digital currencies for betting. Sites like Betmoose, Fairlay, Mybookieag, Sportsbookag, Vegaselectionodd.com, and Oddsshark will allow registered users to bet on the U.S. 2020 election by leveraging $5 to $5,000 worth of cryptocurrencies. Most of these websites also show that Trump is favored to win and other candidates with decent odds include Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, and Elizabeth Warren.

What do you think about cryptocurrency participants betting for or against Donald Trump winning the 2020 election? What do you think about the FTX futures contract TRUMP and the prediction markets hosted on Augur? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Image credits: Shutterstock, FTX Exchange, predictions.global, Wiki Commons, Fair Use, and Pixabay.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.