DATE:  08.02.2020, 01:45:52
TITLE: New Regency Television Wins Screen Rights to Onecoin Story - The Missing Cryptoqueen
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/new-regency-wins-screen-rights-missing-cryptoqueen/

New Regency Television Wins Screen Rights to Onecoin Story - The Missing Cryptoqueen

The story of Onecoin and cofounder Ruja Ignatova might be seen on television sets in the near future. Reports detail that New Regency Television International participated in a bid for the rights to the BBC Sounds podcast “The Missing Cryptoqueen.”

Also read: The Fallout From Onecoin’s Ponzi Scheme Continues to Impact Investors

New Regency Television Buys the Rights to The Missing Cryptoqueen Story

For six years, Onecoin and Ruja Ignatova persuaded millions of investors to join her Ponzi scheme and the fraudulent leaders siphoned $4 billion from the organizational structure. According to The Times, the crypto multi-level-marketing scheme Onecoin was one of the “biggest scams in history.” News.Bitcoin.com has been reporting on the scam for years and warning readers to stay far away from the project. Our article “Buyer Beware! The Definitive OneCoin Ponzi Exposé” has been visited 340,000 times and translated into multiple languages. Two weeks ago, news.Bitcoin.com reported on Onecoin’s demise continuing to affect investors in regions like Australia and New Zealand. Our newsdesk reported that two out of the three cofounders (Konstantin Ignatov and Sebastian Greenwood) have been arrested but Ruja Ignatova remains at large.

Ruja’s brother Konstantin Ignatov explained that she might be in Athens or Russia and she told him she obtained a “big passport.” Ruja’s whereabouts have been a huge mystery and it inspired the BBC Sounds podcast called “The Missing Cryptoqueen.” The podcast produced by Georgia Catt and Jamie Bartlett is a story about the search for Ruja Ignatova and the extent of the Onecoin operation. The eight-part podcast was extremely popular and has been downloaded 3.5 million times. The show also touched the number one position on the UK iTunes charts last year. Now the company New Regency Television International has reportedly won the rights to the Catt and Bartlett’s podcast.

“Was deep in edit last night so missed all this excitement,” Georgia Catt tweeted on February 5 after the story rights auction. “The Missing Cryptoqueen plays out like the most gripping drama … a cautionary tale needed to be brought into mainstream consciousness. Hope it continues to get word out about Onecoin around the world.”

A Television Series Showing ‘How People Can Be Duped on a Massive Scale’

According to deadline.com, New Regency won the screen rights in a “highly competitive situation” and a “heated auction.” New Regency also competed with firms like 20th Century TV and A24 during the auction. Reportedly the media company will produce a television adaption of The Missing Cryptoqueen story co-written by Catt and Bartlett. Deadline reported that the television show producers are in the midst of searching for directors in order to create a “multi-episodic drama.” New Regency’s head of television, executive Ed Rubin, spoke with Deadline about the new Onecoin series that focuses on Ruja Ignatova’s scheme.

“The Missing Cryptoqueen makes for compulsive listening, as each week the extraordinary details play out like the most gripping drama,” Rubin remarked. “Jamie and Georgia have also brilliantly captured a story about the dark side of rapid technological change, and how people can be duped on a massive scale – this is a cautionary tale that needed to be brought into mainstream consciousness. It’s a world-traversing story of corruption, jeopardy, and deception – and combined with the twists and turns, complex mystery and global reach of the scandal, we’re excited to bring it to life on screen.”

The TV drama news about Onecoin and Ruja Ignatova follows the recent push by former Locke Lord LLP attorney Mark Scott to get an acquittal. Scott is accused of helping Onecoin associates launder $400 million in the British Virgin Islands. According to the Florida native Scott, no witnesses have testified that he had anything to do with the Onecoin operation. It’s uncertain if New Regency will be using the real names of all the characters accused of being involved with the billion-dollar Ponzi scheme. New Regency chairman Yariv Milchan believes the story is meaningful and the type of story that New Regency is looking for. “The Missing Cryptoqueen is the type of content that fits with New Regency’s strategy to tell meaningful stories that showcase up and coming creative talent as well as the work of established artists,” Milchan told the press on Tuesday.

What do you think about a television series that covers the Onecoin scheme and the cryptoqueen Ruja Ignatova? Let us know what you think about this topic in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Onecoin logos, Pixabay, The Missing Cryptoqueen, BBC Sounds, Twitter, New Regency Television Logo, Fair Use, Wiki Commons, and Pixabay.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.