DATE:  21.03.2020, 00:40:48
TITLE: Bitcoin [BTC] Gains Expected as Unemployment Claims Soar in the US
URL:   https://coingape.com/bitcoin-btc-bulls-propped/

Week-to-date, Bitcoin is up double-digits.

Advertisement

After a cataclysmic and depressing fall, BTC price is up 68% in the last trading week and looking likely to breach $7,000 amid high trading volumes.

However, with the negative impact of coronavirus–which from general observation, is resistant to massive quantitative easing efforts from Europe, the UK, and the United States, Bitcoin could add to their gains if the number of unemployment claims from Ohio is leading.

Unemployment Claims in Ohio rockets to 140,000 in 5 Days

There, reports reveal, the number of claims in the last week reached 160,000, an anomaly, as workers are encouraged to work from home to prevent another wave of contagion. Some have even lost their jobs.

According to Antony Pompliano, the Co-founder & Partner at Morgan Creek Digital, the situation “could get really bad very quickly” and is instead asking the community to act with kindness.

Advertisement

“Ohio’s unemployment claims are almost 140,000 from last Sunday till yesterday. 140,000 in 5 days. From one state. This could get really bad very quickly.”

Ohio’s unemployment claims are almost 140,000 from last Sunday till yesterday. 140,000 in 5 days. From one state. This could get really bad very quickly. Please be kind to folks. Try to help those in need. There are a lot of people hurting right now 🙏🏽 — Pomp 🌪 (@APompliano) March 20, 2020

Above Average NFP Data in February 2020

Employment in the US under President Trump is at an all-time high and peaking.

The latest Non-Farm Payrolls (NFP), a tracker for non-farm employment levels on a monthly basis, for instance, exceeded expectations in February.

Last month, the number of new jobs added to the economy was 235,000 against a consensus of 175,000. Also, the unemployment rate dropped to 3.5%, down from the expected 3.6% while average earnings increased by 3%.

The performance was despite the effects of coronavirus in China and Europe and an announcement by the Federal Reserve that it will slash rates and intervene in the Repo market for liquidity. The above-average performance saw USD rally and crash the market.

Inflation and Bitcoin Halving to turbo charge prices

However, as it is, the situation could quickly change. If unemployment rises amid billions of dollars injected into the market, Bitcoin and gold, two of the leading safe haven assets, stand to benefit.

Inflation will be factored and a re-pricing considering a grim reality of low purchasing power and governments scrambling to contain a hampering virus, there seems to be more headroom for Bitcoin in days ahead.

The steepening of the Treasury curve shows how the market is pricing in an increase in bond supply and inflation down the road. Once the maelstrom is behind us, this should be good for gold, and, theoretically, for bitcoin as well. In the mid to long run. pic.twitter.com/1qvTmLlcYO — Alex Krüger (@krugermacro) March 18, 2020

Traders are also looking at the emissions shock of May 2020 when rewards will be slashed by half.

Such an event is the added fuel for better BTC prices going into the second half of the year when the asset often outperforms.

Summary Article Name Bitcoin (BTC) Bulls Propped as Unemployment Claims Soar in the US Description Bitcoin will likely soar and BTC rally to February 2020 highs in the next few weeks as the number of unemployment claims in Ohio rise to 140,000 in 5 days. Author Dalmas Ngetich Publisher Name CoinGape Publisher Logo

Binance Futures Limited Offer: Use Use this link to register & get 10% discount on fees.



Disclaimer The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Coingape is committed to following the highest standards of journalism, and therefore, it abides by a strict editorial policy . While CoinGape takes all the measures to ensure that the facts presented in its news articles are accurate.The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Instant loans by local bank transfer using your crypto as collateral