DATE:  21.03.2020, 11:47:34
TITLE: Blockchain Technology is Advancing Rapidly, the Next Bitcoin is the SAKT!
URL:   https://www.coinspeaker.com/blockchain-technology-next-bitcoin-sakt/

The first blockchain officially produced Bitcoin on January 3, 2009, with a peak period of $19,000/Bitcoin, and a global multi-currency trading market with a daily trading volume of $10 billion. Endless trading, market volatility is very large, without political organization intervention, from the BTC derived a variety of blockchain. Blockchain three key technical ideas are: consensus mechanism, smart contract, asymmetric encryption, will make blockchain technology better and better.

Don Guo, CEO of Broctagon Fintech Group, told The Independent:

“Digital currencies are coming into the mainstream and international competition is heating up. Economies risk being disadvantaged if they are left behind.”

SAKT was launched on the Coinbte exchange in the middle of March 2020. SAKT was established spontaneously by a global green environmental protection organization, a digital blockchain alliance system with global decentralization, open automatic supervision, secure information encryption, optimized resource allocation and reuse, and independent operation of the public chain. SAKT will serve as the next generation of long-term stable virtual settlement currency.

Based on BYTKEN algorithm, you can run your own independent node locally and run your arbitrary public-chain digital assets across the chain.

Don Tapscott, an internationally renowned blockchain expert, said:

“USDT as a token may have guaranteed its historical status, but its future is still uncertain. SAKT will soon replace it as the main token.”

SAKT wallet is an automatic program for the management of blockchain digital assets. It can enter the blockchain without any threshold and seamlessly connect with various digital assets. The unique public blockchain of SAKT wallet integrates the existing mainstream public chains into the wallet, so as to solve the problems of insufficient blockchain performance, high handling fees, slow time to account, unable to cross-chain and cross contract. It is realized with decentralization as the core A personal property steward with you as the center.

Advantages of SAKT wallet:

Digital Asset outstanding, Blockchain advantage, Information cannot be falsified. Once the data information is written into the block, it cannot be changed.

Decentralization, no third-party intervention, enabling peer-to-peer transactions and interactions; In the entire Internet financial system, both the supplier of funds and the borrowers of funds can act as protectors; jointly maintain the reliability and security of the entire blockchain information.

Reliable database, open and transparent in a very short time, the block information will be copied to all the blocks in the network, and the whole network data synchronization will be realized. Each node can backtrack all the transaction information of the past parties.

It is obviously impossible to tamper with blockchain information only if you master 51% of the entire system. Because there are so many participants in the whole system, mastering so many nodes is extremely costly and impossible to achieve. Data integrity, authenticity and security.

Oscar M. Berry as Founder of SAKT Project Fund, told The Independent: