DATE:  21.03.2020, 14:50:00
TITLE: Opera browser goes blockchain-friendly, allows users to purchase Bitcoin using debit cards and Apple Pay
URL:   https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/opera-browser-goes-blockchain-friendly-allows-users-to-purchase-bitcoin-using-debit-cards-and-apple-pay/articleshow/74745342.cms

iStock Charles Hamel, head of crypto at Opera, reiterated that the update would cement the browser’s status as the most blockchain-friendly system in the market.

For The Sake Of Our Planet: 15 Clean Tech Start-Ups That Are Addressing Climate Change of 16 Next Prev







Play Slideshow Call For Climate Change 19 Feb, 2020 Tech for energy storage, smart metering, clean cooking, innovative EV solutions, battery technologies, energy monitoring systems and hydro turbine technologies are among the 15 winning start-ups announced and felicitated by Government of India, BIRAC, Tata Trusts, TATA Power and Social Alpha at a felicitation ceremony and innovation showcase of the Social Alpha Energy Challenge 2.0 (SAEC 2.0), last week. The winners were selected from more than 150 applicants across the country which were screened for their unique technology and business model, strong focus on affordability and accessibility and social, economic and environmental impact.The selection for the winners of Social Alpha Energy Challenge 2.0 was made for two categories respectively - ‘pre-pilot’ and ‘post-pilot’, to address the needs of technologies and start-ups in different stages of product development. The pre-pilot category winners will be supported in their very early stage through handholding and mentorship for product development, including support in physical prototype development and testing. The post-pilot category start-ups are the ones that have crossed the proof of concept stage and have demonstrated a working prototype, and will be supported in the go-to-market execution.The winners will be incubated by the Clean Energy International Incubation Centre (CEIIC). CEIIC, Social Alpha’s deep-tech Energy Innovation Lab, which is the joint initiative of the Government of India and Tata Trusts, supported by Department of Biotechnology, BIRAC, Tata Power and Tata Power-Delhi Distribution Limited. CEIIC will support entrepreneurs by providing industry and field connect critical for product development . Tech for energy storage, smart metering, clean cooking, innovative EV solutions, battery technologies, energy monitoring systems and hydro turbine technologies are among the 15 winning start-ups announced and felicitated by Government of India, BIRAC, Tata Trusts, TATA Power and Social Alpha at a felicitation ceremony and innovation showcase of the Social Alpha Energy Challenge 2.0 (SAEC 2.0), last week. The winners were selected from more than 150 applicants across the country which were screened for their unique technology and business model, strong focus on affordability and accessibility and social, economic and environmental impact.The selection for the winners of Social Alpha Energy Challenge 2.0 was made for two categories respectively - ‘pre-pilot’ and ‘post-pilot’, to address the needs of technologies and start-ups in different stages of product development. The pre-pilot category winners will be supported in their very early stage through handholding and mentorship for product development, including support in physical prototype development and testing. The post-pilot category start-ups are the ones that have crossed the proof of concept stage and have demonstrated a working prototype, and will be supported in the go-to-market execution.The winners will be incubated by the Clean Energy International Incubation Centre (CEIIC). CEIIC, Social Alpha’s deep-tech Energy Innovation Lab, which is the joint initiative of the Government of India and Tata Trusts, supported by Department of Biotechnology, BIRAC, Tata Power and Tata Power-Delhi Distribution Limited. CEIIC will support entrepreneurs by providing industry and field connect critical for product development . Next Grassroots Energy 19 Feb, 2020 Developed a low-cost energy efficient technology that can purify and compress biogas in a cost effective manner. This will address diverse market segments currently using fossil fuels to switch to low-cost bio-CNG without any lowering of performance. Developed a low-cost energy efficient technology that can purify and compress biogas in a cost effective manner. This will address diverse market segments currently using fossil fuels to switch to low-cost bio-CNG without any lowering of performance. Next Elicius Energy 19 Feb, 2020 A fuel cell energy storage technology that offers clean power and provides an increase in power density as compared to the current market standard and lower initial purchase costs. A fuel cell energy storage technology that offers clean power and provides an increase in power density as compared to the current market standard and lower initial purchase costs. Next Temperate Technologies 19 Feb, 2020 Developed a new proprietary energy-efficient air conditioning and cold storage technology which leads to up to 50% reduction in the overall energy consumption. Developed a new proprietary energy-efficient air conditioning and cold storage technology which leads to up to 50% reduction in the overall energy consumption. Next Offgrid Energy Labs 19 Feb, 2020 Developed a ZincGel® battery that can outperform current lead acid batteries in terms of power density, battery-life and cost thereby significantly reducing the number of batteries. Developed a ZincGel® battery that can outperform current lead acid batteries in terms of power density, battery-life and cost thereby significantly reducing the number of batteries. Next

With global markets in tailspin due to the coronavirus, investors looking to hedge their bets on cryptocurrencies have reason to cheer. The web browser, Opera , has rolled out an update that makes it easier for users to purchase digital tokens.Opera, which was the first browser to introduce an in-built crypto-wallet, has devised a system whereby users in the United States and Scandinavian countries can purchase Ethereum and Bitcoin using their debit cards, or with Apple Pay Charles Hamel, head of crypto at Opera, reiterated that the update would cement the browser’s status as the most blockchain-friendly system in the market."In the past, obtaining cryptocurrencies was a cumbersome process that took hours or even days. When you compare it with this seamless solution, which takes less than 30 seconds, it really is a gamechanger," he said.Opera is a Chromium-based browser with a Blink engine, and has applications for Windows , macOS, Android, iOS, and Linux operating systems. Its decision to facilitate cryptocurrency trade should be viewed as a part of its strategy to market the feature as an alternative to rivals like Google Chrome and Apple Safari.Newer browsers with unique selling points have also gained popularity overnight, with the privacy-centric Brave being a notable example. It is also pro-crypto. Opera plans to introduce the crypto feature in other countries.The crypto market has also been relatively volatile given the recent turmoil, but the ease of trade offered by Opera will be good news for dedicated investors, even in India.India’s Supreme Court in March overturned the central bank’s two-year-old ban on cryptocurrency trading – a decision that was heralded by Blockchain enthusiasts and crypto investors.