DATE:  02.05.2019, 07:04:57
TITLE: $1 Billion Crypto Giant Launches Massive Push for Bitcoin (BTC) – Plus Ripple and XRP, Ethereum, Litecoin, Tron, Stellar, Dogecoin
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2019/05/02/1-billion-crypto-giant-launches-massive-push-for-bitcoin-btc-plus-ripple-and-xrp-ethereum-litecoin-tron-stellar-dogecoin/

‎‎‎ ‏‏‎

From a multi-million dollar campaign promoting Bitcoin to the future of Ethereum and Litecoin, here’s a look at some of the stories breaking in the world of crypto.

Bitcoin

The New York-based crypto firm Grayscale Investments is making a major pitch for Bitcoin and crypto.

As reported by Fortune, Grayscale is launching an “unprecedented multi-million dollar marketing campaign that includes a year of national TV commercials.” The first commercial is called “Drop Gold” and shows traders weighed down by the old school precious metal.

“Digital currencies like Bitcoin are the future. They’re secure, borderless. And unlike gold, they actually have utility. Leave the pack behind. It’s time to drop gold.”

Grayscale offers a number of crypto-based trusts for institutional investors and says Bitcoin’s surge in April boosted its assets under management to more than $1 billion.

Ethereum

Engineer and Ethereum advisor Rick Dudley is talking about the platform’s roadmap.

In a new interview with EthHub, Dudley talks about the current state of Ethereum and the upcoming transition to Ethereum 2.0.

Ripple and XRP

Content creation platform Coil has unveiled its new monetization features. Stefan Thomas, founder of Coil and former chief technology officer of Ripple, says articles, videos, live streams and entire websites can avoid ads and use Coil to create a customizable pages that are automatically enabled for streaming payments.

Coil streams micropayments to creators in real time. Contributors can pay content creators in any currency or asset. Creators can cash out in US dollars via check, ACH or wire transfer or in the cryptocurrency XRP.

Litecoin

Litecoin creator Charlie Lee just sat down for an interview with Anthony Pompliano’s Off The Chain podcast.

The two talk about Lee’s early days at Coinbase, the evolution of crypto in the last 10 years, and where Lee thinks Litecoin is heading.

Stellar

IBM senior technical staff member Todd Kaplinger just released a new post on how developers can join the Stellar testnet “the easy way.”

“I was looking to start up my own standalone Stellar network as part of a research effort. I was able to find an existing project from a SatoshiPay GitHub repo that included a Docker Compose file to become part of the Stellar live network. I thought it would be cool to see how this could be applied to the Stellar testnet and eventually be extended to Stellar standalone deployments sometime in the future.”

You can check out the details here.

Tron

Tron founder Justin Sun says he’s postponing a rewards program for the platform’s new Tron-based Tether (USDT) token. There’s no indication on when the postponement may be lifted.

“This was by no means an easy decision. My team and I have been focused for months on bringing stability and liquidity to the Tron community. We are still committed to doing what’s best for the network and will examine our options after hearing how events unfold with Bitfinex and Tether.”

I’ve decided to postpone our #USDT rewards program for future updates until there’s more clarity regarding @bitfinex and @Tether_to. Regardless, I firmly believe stablecoins will continue to play a big role in the blockchain space. $TRX #TRX #BTT $BTT https://t.co/xpe1eA2URK — Justin Sun (@justinsuntron) May 1, 2019

Dogecoin

Coinbase has just announced support for Dogecoin (DOGE). Users can now store DOGE directly in the Coinbase Wallet app. The wallet update with DOGE support is expected to roll out to users on iOS and Android over the next week.

ADVERTISEMENT