DATE:  01.04.2020, 10:23:18
TITLE: Bitcoin News Today – Headlines for April 1
URL:   https://smartereum.com/187292/bitcoin-news-today-headlines-for-april-1/

Bitcoin’s underlying technology is has not been scaled properly – Jeffrey Tucker

Bitcoin’s scaling issue is affecting its price

Vitalik Buterin weighs in on the comment of Tucker

Bitcoin News Today – In a recent tweet, Jeffrey Tucker – American Institute for Economic Research editorial director – reignited the long-running Bitcoin (BTC) debate. Tucker, who has been a proponent of BTC for long, said that the present price of the digital currency is much lower than it otherwise would have been due to the fact that the underlying technology has not been scaled properly.

The Underlying Technology of Bitcoin Has Not Been Scaled Properly – Jeffrey Tucker

Yesterday, Tucker tweeted:

“I’m not unimpressed by a $6K price of BTC. I was blown away when the thing reached $30.00. But can you imagine the price today if the thing had properly scaled?”

I'm not unimpressed by a $6K price of BTC. I was blown away when the thing reached $30.00. But can you imagine the price today if the thing had properly scaled? — Jeffrey A Tucker (@jeffreyatucker) March 30, 2020

The tweet threw more light on comments Tucker made a few weeks ago on RT, during a panel discussion with Peter Schiff – a well-known Bitcoin skeptic. He said, during the debate, that they have wasted too much time on this “scaling issue” that had prevented mainstream adoption.

Bitcoin (BTC) Price Today – BTC / USD

# Name Price 24H % 1 $6,886.69 -0.49%

“Adoption hasn’t gone far enough and it hasn’t come into consumer use like it should and would have if it had been able to scale. Now we’re seeing what happens when Bitcoin was not properly scaled.”

According to Tucker, BTC was made to thrive in times like the present financial crisis. He said that the reason why the digital currency is not thriving right now is because of its scaling issue. In a tweet, he said:

“Bitcoin was innovated to become a safe haven during times just like this. So why aren’t we seeing Bitcoin become the safe haven that it was developed to be, and was for a number of years?”

Vitalik Buterin Responds to Tucker’s Comment

The scaling problem of Bitcoin has been one of the most talked-about topics in the digital currency space. The underlying network is not able to process transactions fast enough to allow for mainstream, wide-scale adoption as a currency. The debate of increasing the block size as a possible solution resulted in the forks of Bitcoin SV and Bitcoin Cash, while the scaling solution Bitcoin adopted is the layer two Lightning Network.

Recently, Vitalik Buterin – the co-founder of Ethereum (ETH) – weighed in on this matter. Buterin told Tucker to take a look at the long-awaited Ethereum 2.0 that is due for launch this year. He said that Ethereum 2.0 will have high scalability but without the centralization that depends mainly on increasing block size.

This provoked much scorn form CSO Samson Mow and Adam Back – the CEO of Blockstream (Bitcoin development company), who posted a “crying with laughter” emoji and wrote “Lols” respectively.