DATE:  01.04.2020, 19:12:30
TITLE: Bitcoin Diamond (BCD) Rise and Shine like a Bright Diamond in 2020
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/13061/bitcoin-diamond-bcd-rise-and-shine-like-a-bright-diamond-in-2020/

Bitcoin Diamond (BCD) cryptocurrency payments facilitate great convenience and efficiency for merchants and customers. The transactions are verified in just a matter of seconds. Merchants are glad because they are protected from high chargebacks.

Bitcoin Diamond (BCD) was designed to work as peer-to-peer cash in a way to match the functionality of traditional fiat currency. The major intention of this Bitcoin fork was to solve the problem of slow confirmations and to deal with the issue of having to have high threshold requirements of Bitcoin.

The BCD pay is useful because merchants can offer their products and services without having to go through the burden of expensive processing fees. Since there are no chargebacks, it is suitable for merchants, and they are less affected when dealing with indecisive customers.

Ayobami Abiola, Crypto Enthousiast and Writer at the Currency Analytics, tweeted: “The upcoming Bitcoin Diamond halving will help the cryptocurrency extend well into the future. We need to see how the reality unfolds for the BCD after halving. Will it rise and shine like a bright diamond?“

The Bitcoin Diamond facilitated BCD Bazaar is the first crypto-only store. The products are hand-picked. The BCD pay facilitates an international market place, where it is possible to have access to the products regardless of where the buyer is from. The BCD pay International exclusively accepts crypto, and it is possible to make purchases with Bitcoin and BCD.

The products in this Bazaar are from the best and popular online retailers who are curated to serve the global market place. Products are hand-picked and added in the Bazaar more frequently.

Those who love electronic gadgets and toys would not want to miss what is offered at the Bazaar. To get started, users need to get a digital wallet, Buy BCD, and pay with BCD. The minimum order limit is set at 212.45 BCD.

Bitcoin Diamond (BCD) Convenient than Credit Card

Bitcoin Diamond (BCD) is hailed to be more versatile than Cash and more secure than fiat and far convenient than a credit card.

Bitcoin Diamond (BCD) is better than fiat being a fork of the Bitcoin Blockchain. The supply of Bitcoin Diamond is limited, and therefore the inflation is kept under control. With BCD, the cost for transacting is less than a penny, and no currency is required for purchasing products from any country. BCD facilitates all good reasons for investors like

Advertisement