DATE:  01.04.2020, 08:45:13
TITLE: Indian State Ministry Discusses Cryptocurrency Plans With Founders of Crypto Bulls Roadshow
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/india-ministry-cryptocurrency/

Indian State Ministry Discusses Cryptocurrency Plans With Founders of Crypto Bulls Roadshow

An Indian state official recently met with the founders of the “India Crypto Bulls” initiative and discussed cryptocurrency development, investment, and innovation in India. News.Bitcoin.com talked to Kumar Gaurav, one of the founders, to find out more about the meeting.

Also read: 2x Bitcoin — Wanna Double Your BTC to the Moon? Forget About It

India Crypto Bulls Founders Meet Rajasthan Official

Amin Pathan, chairman of the Dargah Committee in Ajmer, under the government of India’s Ministry of Minority Affairs, recently met with the founders of the India Crypto Bulls initiative — the team that is organizing a nationwide roadshow in 15 major Indian cities.

News.Bitcoin.com talked to one of the India Crypto Bulls founders, Cashaa CEO Kumar Gaurav, about the meeting. He explained that Pathan is “the president of the Dargah Committee, Ajmer, which is one of the biggest holy pilgrimages of Muslims all over the world. He is exploring blockchain solution to digitize various assets governed by his ministry to finish any corruption due to title unclarity.” Pathan is also chairman of the Rajasthan State Haj Committee (State Minister), former State President BJP Minority Morcha Rajasthan, and the vice president of the Rajasthan Cricket Association.

Pathan discussed his views regarding India’s crypto development, investment, and innovation. He told the India Crypto Bulls founders:

The state is looking to host a conference with participants including Indian administrative service officers who are concerned and relevant with the key affairs relating to bitcoin and other digital asset financial services.

“Moreover, the upcoming conference in the state by Rajasthan minister will also comprise of training sessions on compliance, how cryptocurrency investment can be matured, precautions that an investor has to follow before dealing or planning to invest in cryptocurrency and several other factors,” the team conveyed. “They believed India Crypto Bulls’ roadshow is closely aligned with their vision of hosting upcoming conferences.”

Gaurav Dubey, O1ex CEO and the other founder of India Crypto Bulls, was quoted as saying, “We are sure that India Crypto Bulls will be able to spread the right knowledge on Cryptocurrencies in Rajasthan with tremendous outreach, under his wise guidance.” Cashaa’s CEO further told news.Bitcoin.com:

He [Shri. Pathan] supported the nationwide Indian Crypto Bulls roadshow and will host the event in his city Jaipur, and Udaipur.

India Crypto Bulls is an initiative by Gaurav and Dubey. They had planned to launch a roadshow across about 15 cities in India in early April to prepare the country for the next crypto bull run and educate the public regarding cryptocurrencies. However, due to the current coronavirus pandemic and the directives from the Indian health ministry, the roadshow has been postponed and will be rescheduled for a later date.

Crypto Gaining Traction After Supreme Court Verdict

The cryptocurrency ecosystem in India is rebuilding after the damage done by the April 2018 circular issued by the central bank, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which banned banks from providing services to crypto businesses. The ban forced several crypto businesses to shut down as a result.

After multiple delays, the Indian supreme court finally ruled that the circular was unconstitutional. The court lifted the ban on March 4. Since then, crypto exchanges have been busy bringing back INR banking support. Several global companies also plan to expand into India and invest in Indian crypto startups. Furthermore, the Indian government is reportedly planning to regulate the crypto space instead of imposing an outright ban as recommended by the interministerial committee (IMC) headed by former Finance Secretary Subhash Chandra Garg.

Commenting on his meeting with Shri. Pathan, Gaurav said: “I found Shri. Amin Pathan Ji an inspiration for youth in India and abroad who lost hope from Indian politicians. After meeting Aminji, I feel confident that under his leadership and with the backing of BJP, emerging technologies like blockchain will get the strong support of Indian govt.” Welcoming Pathan onboard the India crypto bulls roadshow, he indicated:

The meeting concluded with a futuristic talk on crypto adoption and development in India. In addition to this, the ministry invited India Crypto Bulls to Rajasthan as a way to emphasize on the crypto discussion.

What do you think of this meeting with Amin Pathan? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons, Kumar Gaurav, Government of India

Use Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash to play online casino games here.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.