DATE:  01.04.2020, 13:50:15
TITLE: PSG star Kylian Mbappe launches lawsuit over Bitcoin scam
URL:   https://www.dailystar.co.uk/sport/football/psg-star-kylian-mbappe-launches-21794621

The video will start in 8 Cancel

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Daily Star - Football Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

PSG superstar Kylian Mbappe has filed a lawsuit after his image was used as part of a bitcoin scam to “become a millionaire”.

The World Cup winner reported on the cryptocurrency fraudsters when his name and image were used without any knowledge or prior consent.

Mbappe was used for publicity for a scheme which claimed it could make investors “become a millionaire in three to four months”, according to reports in France.

The scam also claimed that the Frenchman had told fans to begin participating in Bitcoin investing and trading while they could as banks would soon be stamping them out.

(Image: REUTERS)

The scam claimed Mbappe said: “What made me successful was taking advantage of new opportunities quickly, without hesitation.

“And now, the real money is in the new cryptocurrency program called Bitcoin Trader. It is the only great opportunity I have seen in my life to make a small and fast fortune.

“I invite everyone to check it out before they close the banks.”

(Image: Bloomberg via Getty Images)

A different advertisement read: “Kylian Mbappes’s last investment pressured the experts and scared the big banks.”

This is not the first time Mbappe has been targeted in a cryptocurrency scandal after his Twitter account was allegedly hacked last year for similar purposes.

It’s thought scammers will use the image of global superstars to lure in investors, before disappearing when they receive the money.

Mbappe’s case is now under investigation.

Meanwhile, transfer expert Guillem Balague played down talk of a summer move for Mbappe to Liverpool due to financial reasons.

”No [Liverpool won't sign Mbappe],” Balague told his YouTube channel.

“Obviously they like Mbappe but he would destroy the wage structure of Liverpool now. They'd have to invest a lot in getting him, so forget that one.”