DATE:  01.04.2020, 15:38:16
TITLE: The big lies that tell us about bitcoin and cryptocurrencies
URL:   https://ourbitcoinnews.com/the-big-lies-that-tell-us-about-bitcoin-and-cryptocurrencies/

The media loves to spread lies about cryptocurrencies, even when it's not April 1st. We don't know if it is a lack of information, a lot of advertising paid by banks, fear of government retaliation or a mix of various factors. See some of the most publicized lies:

Bitcoin is very volatile

“Internet magic money” seems volatile – source: Bloomberg

The shares of the largest company listed on B3, Petrobras, experienced two days of falls of 20% or more in March. If this type of movement makes the asset unfeasible, the error is in the investor's exposure, that is, the allocation in risk capital.

Comparison of daily returns between Bitcoin and Petrobras PN

Treasury bills, for example, offer a predictable return, however, the chances of a positive surprise at the end of time are zero. Bitcoin appreciated 12% in Real (R $) only in the first three months of 2020.

Bitcoin has no ballast

Does Bitcoin not have ballast? The Dollar, Real, Euros or Yuans have not

have something of this kind. There is no longer guaranteed convertibility between the

Dollar and gold since 1971.

When the government needs more money, just change a cell in some spreadsheet. The proof of this is that the money in circulation in the USA, adding bank deposits, went from US $ 4.6 trillion in 2000 to a current US $ 15.7 trillion.

Circulating dollars, measured in billions – source: EDF

Anyone who thinks that countries' international reserves cover the

amount of coins issued, or part of it. The international reserves of the

Brazil, for example, cover only 30% of gross debt.

Used to launder money

Again, we must admit: cryptocurrencies are used to launder money. In the same way, people with bad intentions use physical notes of money, gold, jewelry, works of art, real estate, restaurants, franchises by Kopenhagen, and everything else imaginable.

Money bags linked to politician Geddel Vieira

Lava Jato, for example, showed a connection of the five largest banks in the country with a R $ 1.3 billion laundering. It is possible to note that the involvement of banks in billionaire crimes is commonplace, not only in Brazil, but around the world. After all, how would it be possible to move such large amounts of money, carry out international remittances, without the participation of banks?

The advantage of cryptocurrencies is traceability and transparency, facilitating the work of the authorities. In the traditional system, it is not possible to carry out an audit, leading to major fraud, such as Banco Santos (2004), Banco Panamericano (2010) and Cruzeiro do Sul (2013).

Important: the fact of using a code to determine the owner of a cryptocurrency wallet does not make transactions hidden or impossible to track. It is just a pseudonym, or nickname.

About the author

José Artur Ribeiro is CEO at Coinext. Economist graduated from Università di Roma (Italy) and investor in cryptocurrencies since 2014. He has more than 15 years of experience in leadership positions. He was CFO of Hexagon Mining and CFO of Vodafone Brasil. He also worked for multinationals such as Airbus Industries (France) and PricewaterhouseCoopers (Italy and Brazil).