DATE:  01.04.2020, 07:10:42
TITLE: What Does Bitcoin’s Monthly Close Tell us about the Future?
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/what-does-bitcoins-monthly-close-tell-us-about-the-future/

Last night, the Bitcoin BUY NOW price closed its monthly candlestick for March. The candlestick took the form of a bearish hammer, with a very long lower-wick.

It closed 24% below the opening price, while the candlestick had a lower-wick with a magnitude of 40%.

Bitcoin Monthly Candlestick For March

The values for the March candlestick are as follows:

Open – $8,525

Close – $6,410

High – $9,219

Low – $3,850

It is worth noting that the lower-wick had a magnitude of 40%, which indicates that there was significant buying pressure at prices below $6,000. However, the candlestick still had a bearish body of 24%. The candlestick looks akin to a bearish hammer.

While this is typically a bearish indication, the price had managed to hold above $6,450, which is an important high time-frame support area. A close below this level would be a major bearish development. As long as the price can keep above this level, a bullish continuation could occur.

In addition, the monthly RSI has reached the 50-line from above. Similar to the $6,450 support, a decrease below this level would indicate that the trend is likely bearish.

Short-Term Outlook

In the short-term, the price has been following a descending resistance line since March 15 when it reached a high of $6,957. At the time of publishing, the price was rejected from the resistance line and had begun to decrease.

In addition, there is a strong resistance area at $6,500, which the price has unsuccessfully attempted to break out from for the past two days.

Finally, it is possible that the price is following an ascending support line. A failure to break out above the current resistance line could trigger a decrease toward support. At the time of publishing, this movement seems likely.

To conclude, the BTC price has created a bearish hammer candlestick for the month of March but has managed to stay above an important monthly support level. In the short-term, the price is expected to decrease towards the support line of the possible symmetrical triangle.

For those interested in BeInCrypto’s previous Bitcoin analysis, click here.

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.