DATE:  27.06.2019, 13:26:21
TITLE: Namecheap Lets You Buy a Domain and Host Your Website With Bitcoin Cash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/namecheap-lets-you-buy-a-domain-and-host-your-website-with-bitcoin-cash/

Namecheap Lets You Buy a Domain and Host Your Website With Bitcoin Cash

Are you a cryptocurrency user looking to establish an online business, an internet community forum or even just create a fan page dedicated to your cat? Namecheap lets you buy a domain name and pay for hosting your website with bitcoin cash (BCH).

Also Read: How to Cold Store Your Cryptocurrency for Safekeeping

Namecheap Accepts Bitcoin Cash

Namecheap is an American company founded in the year 2000 that provides services for registering, hosting and managing websites. With more than 11 million registered domain names as of June 2019, it is among the top three largest internet domain registration companies in the world. Namecheap supports making cryptocurrency payments via Bitpay which means it accepts both bitcoin cash (BCH) and bitcoin core (BTC).

Besides a selection of domains, Namecheap also offers fully featured website hosting packages, WordPress hosting, SSL security certificates, Whois Guard privacy protection, email hosting, VPN services and more. And as its name implies, it focuses on operating at the most competitive prices in the online domain business. So you should get a bang for your satoshis.

If you are concerned about the public positions of the companies you work with, you should know that in the past Namecheap has came out as both strongly anti-SOPA (Stop Online Piracy Act) and as a supporter of Net Neutrality. In September 2017, the company also announced it had already donated more than $300,000 to the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Fight for the Future “in support of Internet rights and freedom.”

For additional options in the field, you might want to check out our story about Abaco Hosting from earlier this year. This company accepts cryptocurrency payments in a variety of popular digital assets such as BCH, BTC, ethereum (ETH), litecoin (LTC), and more.

What do you think about Namecheap accepting bitcoin cash? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.