DATE:  27.06.2019, 09:30:11
TITLE: PR: Incent - A Crypto Rewards Platform
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-incent-a-crypto-rewards-platform/

PR: Incent - A Crypto Rewards Platform

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Amid a surge in income-generating smartphone apps, Incent is making itself heard. The crypto rewards platform offers a unique opportunity for regular shoppers to earn a passive income.

Crypto loyalty platform Incent is giving everyday consumers a new way to save as they spend, building a nest egg at a time when there are few good opportunities for regular investors.

In the ten years since the Global Financial Crisis, Quantitative Easing has boosted housing and asset prices, the wealthy have prospered and inequality has increased – but ordinary people are struggling with increased debt and lower wages. Low interest rates offer poor returns, and less than half of milleninals have enough savings to last them just three months.

Income-generating apps

It is within this context that an increasing number of fintech apps are launching. These typically appeal to younger and novice investors, and aim to offer an easy way to put their money to work and tap into passive income streams – without the large capital or experience of professional investors.

Raiz, for example – formerly known as Acorns – is Australia’s #1 investment app. The platform enables users to invest spare change from everyday purchases in diversified ‘smart’ portfolios of ETFs, as well as setting aside regular lump sums, if they wish. In March this year, Raiz hit the milestone of 1 million downloads. In the UK, Nutmeg – an automated investment service – has over 50,000 users and £1 billion in assets under management.

Tech natives

These apps are designed to appeal to millennials and the younger, tech-savvy generations – also those who have been most affected by the financial crisis. It is no coincidence that millennials are also the demographic who are most likely to purchase and trade cryptocurrency, since they are both more comfortable engaging with new technologies and are seeking ‘alpha’, or better returns on their hard-earned cash.

As a crypto loyalty programme, Incent sits in both of these categories. The platform issues rewards of INCNT tokens to users on every spend they make, funneling cents and dollars into crypto in the same way that apps like Raiz seamlessly funnel change into equities.

Crypto economics

Unlike the conventional markets and fiat currencies, however, Incent has fixed supply and every new purchase of the token places net demand on the market.

‘The idea is simple,’ comments CEO Rob Wilson. ‘We want to make it as easy as possible for everyday consumers to access crypto, save money and build wealth. Our platform enables them to do that absolutely frictionlessly – once they’ve registered and synced their bank account, debit or credit card , they can go about their daily business knowing that every time they spend money, a little fraction of that is being stored as digital value.’

Incent’s waiting list is currently live, with full launch planned for July. Consumers will be rewarded in Incent tokens on every spend they make which are tradable on Bittrex. To find out more visit [https://www.incent.com/] or join us on Telegram

Contact Email Address

freya@bitcoinbulletin.org

Supporting Link

https://www.incent.com/

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.