DATE:  12.04.2020, 06:41:33
TITLE: Binance Now Accepts Five New Fiat Currencies
URL:   https://bitboycrypto.com/binance-now-accepts-five-new-fiat-currencies/

Binance, one of the world's most prominent crypto exchanges, announced lat week that it would accept payment in five new fiat currencies. Now, Binance clients can buy cryptos with the Colombian peso, the Kenyan shilling, the Kazakhstani tenge, Peru’s neuvo sol. And the South Korean won.

At the time of the program's opening, Binance clients can buy Bitcoin (BTC), Ether (ETH), Binance Coin (BNB), XRP, Binance USD (BUSD) and Tether (USDT). Binance offers loads of trading options as well, and allows traders to both trade on a token for token basis, and also use leverage.

If you want to buy cryptos with Binance, just click right here for more information. In addition to accepting a range of tokens, Binance also allows its clients to buy cryptos with many different kinds of fiat currency.

Whether you are interested in trading cryptos for profit, or investing in them for the long-term, this may be a good time to start looking into the crypto options that are out there.

Binance Offers a Range of Crypto Tools

Binance offers traders and investors loads of token pairs for trading, as well as a number of withdrawal options for people that want to have the ability to swap tokens. The exchange also features two ways to trade, with both a simple and advanced trading interface.

If you are new to the world of crypto trading, the Binance basic exchange could make a lot of sense. You will still be able to trade with a number of token pairs, and it is easy to start using the advanced interface if you want to try it out.

One of the best parts about Binance it the exchange's openness to new tokens. The exchange is often one of the first major exchanges to list new tokens, and it also has its own token (BNB). Getting in early on a new token can be very profitable, and Binance gives its clients an easy way to start trading in new tokens.

Why Jump Into Cryptos?

Although crypto have been trading in a similar way to risk assets since the COVID-19 crash started, they may hold up well in the medium term. The simple fact is that global monetary authorities have decided to rapidly embark on an extraordinary takeover of the world biggest markets (the US stock and bond markets, among others) which is, at best, very dangerous.

Cryptos are a relatively new asset class, but they are the only one that fully leverages the global information infrastructure to allow people to trade freely. This is an amazing capability, and it may lead to much higher crypto prices over the next decade.

If you would like to learn more about how to buy cryptos with fiat currency, just click right here for more details. Cryptos are the only asset class that can be sent around the world if the fiat banking system is offline, and it is easy to buy into the crypto economy today!