DATE:  12.04.2020, 11:14:10
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino Adds Eastern Goddesses Slot By Microgaming
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-eastern-goddesses-slot-by-microgaming/141011

If you are a fan of oriental culture, myths and legends, then you will love Eastern Goddesses, the five-reel slot that can be played at BitcoinCasino io. Here, three beautiful goddesses representing three of the basic elements of life – fire, water, and wind – each offers a bonus feature unique to its element.

Theme

Eastern Goddesses takes you to a ritualized Asian universe, ruled by three divine feminine deities. Gaming symbols are part and parcel of this world: along with the three goddesses themselves, they include tigers, snakes, panda bears, smiling Buddha statues, ornate swords, handsomely-crafted pottery, and gongs. There is also a green wild symbol and a set of multicolored, overlapping triangles that act as scatter. In the background, traditional Asian instruments provide a relaxing soundtrack, while ornate, classical pagodas flank a courtyard behind the reels.

Betting Options and Functions

Bets are adjustable from 0.30 to 150.00 times the betting currency, while the 30 paylines are fixed, paying only from left to right. Autoplay is available up to 100 spins, while a pop-up paytable menu offers more information about pay structure, bonuses, and gaming symbols. The overall RTP is a rock solid 96.4%.

Features

Say what you will about this imaginary world, but with four distinct bonuses, it will never leave players bored. Each of the title goddesses offers her own elemental bonus. When the Water Goddess, who reigns over the third reel, is triggered, a giant waterfall spreads across the reels, filling them with wild symbols. The Fire Goddess brings win multipliers into the mix, while the Goddess of Wind blows gusts of wind across the reels, pushing stacks of wild symbols from right to left as the reels continue to spin. Any of these three can be a massive boon to players’ bankrolls, but it’s when more than one bonus appears, as in Free Spins, that things can reach yet another level.

The Divine minigame is set in motion by the appearance of three or more scatter symbols on the reels. Here, players try to match three different parts of one of the game’s deities, in order to decide which bonus will favor players during free spins. The combination of bonuses makes this part of gameplay the most lucrative of all.

Verdict

The creators may not have hit on an original theme with this slot, but still have put together a great game. Eastern Goddesses is an instant classic with fun symbols, smooth and straightforward gameplay, and a world of bonuses to choose from. For a slot of this quality to offer such a theoretical return to player is indeed remarkable, if not quite the stuff of divine intervention at online casinos.