DATE:  12.04.2020, 19:56:26
TITLE: Singapore has highest number of corona infections after China, 33 patients confirmed, Orange alert issued
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/singapore-has-highest-number-of-corona-infections-after-china-33-patients-confirmed-orange-alert-issued/85406/

Singapore, ANI. Corona virus, which is wreaking havoc in China, has caused panic in Singapore. The number of patients infected with this virus has increased to 33 in Singapore. This is the highest number of victims of corona virus in any foreign country after China. In view of the fast growing cases in Singapore, the level of alert has been increased from Yellow to Orange. The warning comes after three new patients who have never traveled to China. They are being investigated about how the corona virus infection occurred.

The official statement issued by the government said that some cases are not related to China. Since these cases are local, the level of alert has been increased to orange. Orange means that the danger to the health of the common people is the greatest. Among the three new cases of corona virus infection, there is a 53-year-old man who spent three days in Malaysia. The second patient is a woman who is a teacher at Victoria Junior College. The third case is of a 39-year-old woman who came after being in Malaysia from January 22 to 29.



Kim Jong Un's sister's political stature increased in North Korea Also read

At the same time, Japan has registered 41 new cases of corona virus on its isolated cruise ship. On the other hand, the death toll from the corona virus in China has reached 636, including the doctor who had already warned about the danger of the virus. Not only this, due to this warning, that doctor had to face the action of the Chinese authorities. On the ill-treatment of the incident with Dol Li Wenliang (34), the ruling Communist Party has said that it is sending a team to investigate the matter.

1: Krishna Bihari Singh

Download 1 app and get job alerts, jokes, shayari, radio and other service with all news of news world