DATE:  12.04.2020, 19:23:23
TITLE: Square’s Cash App Now Charging Fees for Bitcoin Purchases
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/squares-cash-app-now-charging-fees-for-bitcoin-purchases/85389/

Replace (Nov. 6, 22:11 UTC): Sq. confirmed that Cash App is rolling out a brand new charge construction for bitcoin purchases. Beforehand, the charges had been baked into the unfold. The article has been up to date.

Jack Dorsey might “love” bitcoin nevertheless it seems to be like Sq. wants a greater margin on it regardless.

Square’s Cash App has began charging standalone charges of as a lot as 1.76 p.c on bitcoin purchases, sources have identified to CoinDesk.

The Cash App’s assist web site now acknowledges charges, writing:

“Cash App might cost a charge whenever you purchase or promote bitcoin. If that's the case, the charge shall be listed on the commerce affirmation earlier than you full a transaction.”

It's unclear when that language was added however there have been no charges related to bitcoin purchases as just lately as September.

In response to the Web Archive, the identical “Bitcoin Fees” web page stated on March 8, 2019:

“You aren't charged a conversion charge, or every other charges, to purchase or promote Bitcoin via the Cash App.”

One screenshot of a purchase order web page dated Nov. 5 confirmed a $0.10 charge for a $10 buy (1 p.c). We additionally noticed $0.88 for a $50 buy (1.76 p.c) and $1.75 for a $100 buy (1.75 p.c). Plainly Sq. rounds down in sure situations.

After publication of this text, a Sq. spokesperson confirmed that Cash App is rolling out a brand new charge construction for bitcoin trades. Beforehand, charges had been included within the unfold (or the markup in the marketplace worth). Now Sq. says it has damaged charges out of the unfold for the sake of person transparency.

Moreover, Cash App up to date the language on its web site clarifying the sorts of charges it could cost for every transaction (the second charge, it must be famous, relies on market volatility):

“Cash App costs two sorts of charges for bitcoin transactions: a service charge for every transaction and, relying on market exercise, an extra charge decided by worth volatility throughout U.S. exchanges.”

For smaller BTC purchases, the 1.76 p.c charge compares favorably with Coinbase. America’s main crypto change has variable charges based mostly on the scale of the transaction, with charges beginning at $0.99 for any buy beneath $10. A $10 transaction on Coinbase incurs a $1.49 charge. At $50 to $200 the charge is $2.99. With a flat 1.49 p.c charge for bigger purchases, Coinbase turns into a greater choice above roughly $171, in line with our checks.

All these charges actually add up: Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong introduced final month the corporate has earned greater than $2 billion in transaction charge income since launching in 2012.

Sq. just lately introduced it could allow purchases of equities within the Cash App, and confirmed to The Verge there could be no charges for inventory purchases.

Sq. processed $125 million in bitcoin gross sales via its Cash App within the second quarter of 2019, practically doubling a document first quarter. Nonetheless, Q2’s bitcoin gross sales solely generated $2 million of gross revenue for the corporate.

Sq. additionally had its Q3 earnings name right now, once more reporting $2 million in revenue on $148 million in quarterly bitcoin gross sales.

Jack Dorsey picture through Shutterstock