DATE:  12.04.2020, 10:45:28
TITLE: Tezos News Today – Headlines for April 12
URL:   https://smartereum.com/187381/tezos-news-today-headlines-for-april-12/

The crypto market has been trading flat in the past week

Tezos posted spectacular growth this past week

Chainlink and Ethereum also posted double gains

Tezos News Today – the digital currency market is reportedly trading flat compared to the way it traded last week at this time. This action can be seen with the recent move of Bitcoin’s price. The price of BTC remains in the same place as it did last week which is $6,800.

Although the largest cryptocurrency by market cap, Bitcoin crossed the $7k mark at some point and triggered a bull run that the full market participated in. However, the tide changed again to bearish from April 10. But despite this price action, some cryptos have performed exceptionally despite the volatility seen through the last seven days. These coins have gained double digits. This is a highlight of the top five performing coins in the last week including Tezos, Ethereum (ETH), and Chainlink.

Tezos Posted Spectacular Growth This Past Week

Tezos is one of several digital assets that have experienced spectacular growth alongside Chainlink and Ethereum. Tezos (XTZ) price is currently trading at the $1.96 area, which is a slight drop from the intraday high point of $2.01 it attained during the closing moments in the Asian session. The coin has made the news recently with several deals and collaborations to drive adoption and improve its value.

Other honorable mentions here include the Stellar (XLM). The digital asset had a remarkable week after it witnessed a 19.8% growth. There is also the Algorand (ALGO) token which posted a 13.3% growth rate over the week to trade at $0.18. Meanwhile, Dash (DASH) posted a 10% growth rate over the last seven days.

Chainlink and Ethereum Also Posted Double-Digit Gains

A price pattern is reportedly forming on the movements of Chainlink. Chainlink is often called the decentralized oracle, as once more seen another week of gains. This week saw the coin gain 35% to trade at the $3.00 mark. This is happening for the first time since March 2020. As of when this content was published, LINK was trading at $3.16. This represents a 0.7% drop in the last 24-hours. However, on a wider scale, the coin gained 38.7% in the last seven days.

The number two largest crypto by market cap has witnessed double-digit gains in the past week. It rose past the $155 mark, which represents a 10.80% growth. Since BCH and Bitcoin SV halving events, the market has poorly reacted. Shortly after moving past the key resistance at $177 on April 8, the bears re-took control of the crypto market. Currently, ETH’s price stands at $155.40. Now the coin must move past the $157 mark before the week closes. This may force ta potential bull run on.