DATE:  29.08.2019, 20:22:00
TITLE: Bitcoin: Self-proclaimed cryptocurrency creator Craig Wright ordered to pay billions
URL:   https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/bitcoin-inventor-satoshi-nakamoto-craig-wright-court-lawsuit-a9084146.html

The self-proclaimed inventor of bitcoin has been ordered to pay up to $5bn over a dispute relating to the inception of the cryptocurrency.

Australian IT consultant Craig Wright was told by a US district court in Florida to hand over half of the bitcoin he mined to the family of David Kleiman.

Mr Kleiman's estate claimed that the pair were business partners before he passed away in 2013.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

Between bitcoin's inception in 2009 and the time of his death, it is estimated up to 1 million bitcoin were mined by Wright.

In recent weeks, the price of bitcoin has been hovering around $10,000, meaning Kleiman's family could be entitled to up to $5bn worth of cryptocurrency.

Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Show all 8 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters

Judge Bruce Reinhart said at the hearing that he was not convinced by Mr Wright's claim that he did not have access to the bitcoin.

"During his testimony, Dr Wright's demeanour did not impress me as someone who was telling the truth," Judge Reinhart said. "When it was favourable to him, Dr Reinhart appeared to have an excellent memory and a scrupulous attention to detail. Otherwise, Dr Wright was belligerent and evasive."

In 2016, Mr Wright said he was the pseudonymous creator of bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto. Many cryptocurrency experts questioned the legitimacy of his claim.

Asked to provide evidence that he invented bitcoin, Mr Wright backed down and said he did "not have the courage".

He wrote in his blog at the time: "I believed that I could do this. I believed that I could put the years of anonymity and hiding behind me. But, as... I prepared to publish the proof of access to the earliest keys, I broke."

However, he continued to maintain that he is Nakamoto, and told the court the private access key to the billions of dollars worth of bitcoin is held by a bonded character who will deliver it in January 2020.

Judge Reinhart did not accept Mr Wright's claim that he could not access the bitcoin, describing the courier situation as "inconceivable".

We’ve teamed up with cryptocurrency trading platform eToro. Click here to get the latest Bitcoin rates and start trading. Cryptocurrencies are a highly volatile unregulated investment product. No EU investor protection. 75% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs.