DATE:  23.03.2020, 15:18:28
TITLE: Bitcoin Price Jumps Above $6,000 Following Fed's Unlimited QE Announcement ⋆ ZyCrypto
URL:   https://zycrypto.com/bitcoin-price-jumps-above-6000-following-feds-unlimited-qe-announcement/

Advertisement

What had started as a “bloody” Monday, suddenly turned into a bullish day for Bitcoin. This is coming after the FED announced new measures to support the economy. Its latest measures have come as a huge boost for Bitcoin and other major financial assets.

Bitcoin began the day trading below $6K after a drop of around 5% starting Sunday. While everyone was shorting following the failed stimulus bill on Sunday, the FED stepped in to offer a much-needed boost.

Everyone expected bloody Monday & went short all assets after the stimulus bill failed to pass by Congress Sunday



In the early hours Monday, before stock market opens, the FED makes a timely announcement to catch everyone off guard



Shorts get evaporated – welcome to the game — Josh Rager 📈 (@Josh_Rager) March 23, 2020

In the latest measure, the FED says it will buy an unlimited amount of assets. This is a measure to ensure market stabilization. The FED notes:

“The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) will purchase Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities in the amounts needed to support smooth market functioning and effective transmission of monetary policy to broader financial conditions and the economy”

Remember the $700B program the Fed announced to buy Treasuries & mortgage-backed securities last Sunday?



Remember how it was supposed to be the BIG solution?



Well they just announced they are increasing the $700 billion target to "unlimited" and will buy any type of bonds now. — Pomp 🌪 (@APompliano) March 23, 2020

A number of analysts continue to point out that the FED is overreacting and the measures are uncalled for and potentially dangerous in the long run.



The thing is, they know right now this language is very important.



They need to say anything that invokes total confidence and gives the public the idea of a guaranteed backstop.



The problem arises if after this “infinite pump” we continue to move down.



What tricks are left? — Cantering Clark (@CanteringClark) March 23, 2020

The FED announcement has ignited investors with most assets turning bullish. For Bitcoin, it has been an immediate jump from the $5,800 price level to over $6,200.



Advertisement

Markets reacting to the Fed announcement that they will buy an unlimited amount of assets in order to stabilize the markets.



Bitcoin = Orange

Stocks = Blue

Silver = White

Gold = Yellow

Crude Oil = Purple

US Dollar = Green



Initial results speak for themselves… pic.twitter.com/L3gnDGzn07 — Mati Greenspan (tweets are not trading advice) (@MatiGreenspan) March 23, 2020

Stimulus Bill Still On The Way

The coming hours should see Bitcoin continue surging high and potentially test its recent high of $6,800. This could then be boosted by the stimulus bill still being discussed by Congress. If passed, the government is looking to print in excess of $1 trillion dollars some of which will make it to citizens in cash handouts.

As we reported, some of this will go into the crypto market and could further propel Bitcoin to jump over $7K.

Notably, the U.S government is increasingly printing money as we approach the Bitcoin halving. So while the dollar continues to flood the economy and lose value, Bitcoin is set to be scarce and add value.