DATE:  23.03.2020, 16:23:04
TITLE: Bitmain Announces Sale of New S19 Crypto Miner
URL:   https://bitcoinist.com/bitmain-announces-sale-of-crypto-s19-series/

Bitcoin Mining Bitmain Announces Sale of New S19 Crypto Miner

Just over a month since announcing the upcoming release of the Antminer S19 series, the crypto mining hardware is on sale at last. Today, Bitmain revealed that its next-gen mining equipment is now for sale domestically with international sales to follow soon.



The Antminer S19 Series

Labeled as the “future of mining,” the newest model in the ASIC lineup, the Antminer S19 Series comes in two different variants. There’s the 95 TH/s and 90 TH/s model, with a power efficiency of 34.5±%5 J/TH, and the AntminerS19 Pro available in a 110 TH/s and 105 TH/s model, both with a power efficiency of 29.5±%5 J/TH.

#Antminer is proud to announce the official sales launch of the next-gen #AntminerS19 Series! (Selling domestically with international sales following soon) For those interested to know more about the product, kindly contact our sales team. #Bitmain #AntminerS19Pro pic.twitter.com/z9bt6VWiw8 — Antminer_main (@Antminer_main) March 23, 2020

What’s new about these latest additions to the Bitmain collection? Power: the Antminer S19 series has the power to potentially make all previous models obsolete.

The Pro edition provides a hashrate of up to 110 TH/s compared to the Antminer S9 at just 14 TH/s. It also beats out the S17 model, which reaches just 55 TH/s. This makes it easily Bitmain’s most powerful mining rig yet.

Both models also come with unrivaled energy efficiency. This is something all Bitcoin miners will need to be studying right now at a time when the hashrate is dropping along with BTC price.

The Changing Face of Crypto Mining

With the Bitcoin Halving on the horizon, Bitmain’s announcement at the end of Feb may have seemed like the perfect timing. After all, greater power and energy efficiency at a time when miners have to fight for a smaller reward is definitely appealing. Moreover, since the rigs have a far higher hashrate, fewer are needed to mine a single bitcoin.

However, with BTC price below the break-even line for some, we’ll probably see many miners capitulate from the network, especially if we test new lows.

That means that probably only the larger players will be able to invest in expensive crypto mining equipment right now. Although, Bitmain has yet to release the price of the S19 series.

The specs are there but the shipping date and price are still distinctly TBD. After a disastrous 2019, this year is starting to look like it will also be hard on Bitcoin mining operations, including the mighty Bitmain.

What do you make of the new S19 mining rig by Bitmain? Let us know in the comments below!



Images via Shutterstock, Twitter @Antminer_Main, blockchain.info