DATE:  23.03.2020, 17:37:00
TITLE: BitOffer Institute: How Do I Earn My Money back after Bitcoin Plunged?
URL:   https://www.cryptocurrencyguide.org/bitoffer-institute-how-do-i-earn-my-money-back-after-bitcoin-plunged/

Influenced by COVID-19, the Bitcoin price plunged by $5,000 within 2 weeks. As it dropped from $9,000 to $3,800, it created the worst daily decline in 7 years. While the market liquidated almost all the longs positions, it triggered a chain reaction that the market had panic emotions surrounded, and the Bitcoin price was frustrated. Besides, the worldwide stock markets all experienced a huge decline, and even the gold market was not able to be immune from it. After the multiple declines, the assets of global investors shrank.

The decline told us a simple sense that the market is full of risks. Even you held Bitcoins in your pocket, it once lost more than 50% value in the short-term, let alone the Bitcoin futures contracts. If you used to trade standard contracts on Huobi Global or BitMEX, whether you opened positions or not, the value of your account would lose as the token price dropped.

Overall, in this case, the market usually liquidates the longs and shorts at the same time while you leverage your trading. When the market fluctuates, closing orders on Huobi Global and OKEx was disabled due to the system lag was serious. At last, all you can do is to pray and wait for the liquidation to your positions since it is obvious that the risk of futures trading is extremely high.

When the situations get serious and extreme like what we experienced last week, futures trading is definitely not fit to trade because whether you belong to the longs or shorts, with a highly additional leverage on your futures contracts, your positions are likely to be liquidated after the market fluctuates. To become the winners on the market, it seems that options trading grabs a victory in the battle between futures trading and itself. The most significant feature of the options trading is that it has an inherent 2,000 times leverage, but it does not have any risk of being forced into liquidation. The investors who trade Bitcoin Options do not have to pay attention to the market all the time. With the feature above, the mentality will be hard to be influenced, so that it will be much easier to make correct choices and strategies.

How Do I Earn My Money back with a Low-budget after Bitcoin plunged?

After the decline, most investors are considering the same question: How do I earn my money back with the rest of the funds? COVID-19 influence on the global market still exists. In other words, market fluctuation will be presented again. In this case, Bitcoin Options becomes a unique choice. Bitcoin Options launched by BitOffer requests 0 fees, 0 margins, and no exercise, and supports the time length in 7-days, 1-day, 12-hours, 4-hours, 1-hour, 5-mins and 2-mins.

What is Bitcoin Options?

Bitcoin Options is a prediction of the movement of Bitcoins in the future. Essentially, it operates like the spot trading, but it allows the investors to buy call or put: Call when the investors expect the market to be bullish, Put when the investors expect the market to be bearish. Its profit formula is the same as that of the spot trading: Within the Options contract period, the investors would earn the price spread if the investors choose the correct direction. In short, BitOffer Bitcoin Options allows the investors to use a small budget to bet the change of the Bitcoins in the future and earn a considerable profit.

Takes the market last week as the example, the Bitcoin price plunged by $5,000, if you bought a 7-days put options contract, you would directly earn $5,000 with a budget which is less than $200. The rate of return was more than 2,500%. When the market was experiencing a serious decline, it dropped by $1,500 in an hour. If you bought a 1-hour put options contract with a budget of $20, you would directly earn $1,500, and the rate of return would reach 7,500%.

How do I trade Bitcoin Options?

For example, the Bitcoin price now is $10,000, and you hold the view that the Bitcoin price will rise in an hour, then you buy a 1-hour call options contract with $20. After then, the Bitcoin price rises by $1,000 in an hour, you will earn $1,000 as profit when the contract settled, which means that you will earn a 50 times payoff as a return.

If the Bitcoin price drops in an hour, you would only lose the premium $20 that you buy the options contract. It is obvious that Bitcoin Options owns the advantage of “Unlimited profit buy limited loss”. Compared with futures trading, if you predict the wrong direction of the Bitcoin market and do not stop loss in time, it might cause your positions to be liquidated and lose money. Thus, Bitcoin Options fits almost all investors.