DATE:  23.03.2020, 13:36:12
TITLE: Chainalysis and Paxful Create a new compliance standard for peer-to-peer cryptocurrency exchanges
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/chainalysis-and-paxful-create-a-new-compliance-standard-for-peer-to-peer-cryptocurrency-exchanges/

[ad_1]



NEW YORK

March 23, 2020

NEW YORK

March 23, 2020

/ PRNewswire / – Chainalysis, the blockchain analytics company, announced its partnership with Paxful, a global peer-to-peer bitcoin marketplace (P2P) that raises the bar for compliance standards for P2P exchanges. Paxful uses Chainalysis KYT (Know Your Transaction) to monitor its platform's cryptocurrency transactions in real time, and Chainalysis Reactor to create investigations when suspicious activity is detected. Together, these tools expand Paxful's compliance expertise and set a new compliance benchmark for the global exchange of P2P cryptocurrencies.

So far, Chainalysis has considered all P2P cryptocurrency exchanges to be inherently risky and marked them as such in their products, as most are decentralized and users often do not even need to set up an account. However, Paxful has created a new precedent for P2P sharing by focusing on best-in-class compliance and KYC (Know Your Customer) standards and prompting Chainalysis to further develop its policies and assess P2P sharing on a case-by-case basis. before they are classified as risky, just like other cryptocurrency exchanges.

<p class = "canvas-atom canvas-text Mb (1.0em) Mb (0) – sm Mt (0.8em) – sm" type = "text" content = "" Compliance is the key factor in building trust cryptocurrency exchange, "said John Dempsey, VP product, chain analysis. "With a case-by-case approach to assessing P2P locations, we are helping to increase trust and transparency across the cryptocurrency ecosystem." "Data-reactid =" 14 ">" Compliance is the key factor in building trust in cryptocurrency exchanges, "said John Dempsey, VP product, chain analysis. "By taking a case-by-case approach to evaluating P2P locations, we are helping to expand trust and transparency across the cryptocurrency ecosystem."

<p class = "canvas-atom canvas-text Mb (1.0em) Mb (0) – sm Mt (0.8em) – sm" type = "text" content = "" At Paxful, compliance and security come first. Make sure you keep the market free from fraud and fraud, "he said Lana Schwartzman, Chief Compliance Officer at Paxful. "Partnering with Chainalysis was a good choice as we work to protect our users and teach them the importance of regulation and compliance in P2P marketplaces like ours." "Data-reactid =" 15 ">" At Paxful, compliance and security are paramount. Remember to keep the market free from fraud and fraud, "he said Lana Schwartzman, Chief Compliance Officer at Paxful. "Partnering with Chainalysis was a good choice as we work to protect our users and teach them the importance of regulation and compliance in P2P marketplaces like ours."

Working with Chainalysis, Paxful is well equipped to develop new controls for customer protection, including blocking outgoing transactions at high-risk addresses related to terrorist financing, sanctioned addresses, child abuse websites, and stolen credit card platforms. As Paxful will carry out further risk assessments in the coming months, the compliance functions will be further expanded.

By using Chainalysis KYT, cryptocurrency companies like Paxful can monitor large amounts of cryptocurrency activity and continuously identify high-risk transactions. Real-time, high-risk activities coupled with improved due diligence enable compliance teams to focus on the most urgent activities, better allocate compliance enforcement resources, and meet their legal obligations to report suspicious activity.

Chainalysis Reactor helps cryptocurrency companies, including Paxful, investigate suspicious transactions and report in more detail to regulators and law enforcement agencies about criminal activities such as blockchain fraud, extortion, and money laundering.

<p class = "Artboard-Atom Artboard-Text Mb (1.0em) Mb (0) – sm Mt (0.8em) – sm" type = "text" content = "About chain analysis

Chainalysis is the blockchain analytics company that provides data and analysis to government agencies, stock exchanges and financial institutions in 40 countries. Our investigative and compliance tools, training and support ensure transparency across blockchains so that our customers can handle cryptocurrency safely. Chainalysis is supported by Accel, Benchmark and other leading venture capital firms and creates trust in blockchains. For more information, visit www.chainalysis.com . "data-reactid =" 19 ">About chain analysis

Chainalysis is the blockchain analytics company that provides data and analysis to government agencies, stock exchanges and financial institutions in 40 countries. Our investigative and compliance tools, training and support ensure transparency across blockchains so that our customers can handle cryptocurrency safely. Chainalysis is supported by Accel, Benchmark and other leading venture capital firms and creates trust in blockchains. For more information, visit www.chainalysis.com .

<p class = "Artboard-Atom Artboard-Text Mb (1.0em) Mb (0) – sm Mt (0.8em) – sm" type = "text" content = "About Paxful:

Paxful's mission is to provide people with a simple, fair and secure platform to buy and sell Bitcoin. They aim to achieve financial inclusion for sub-banks and non-banks through peer-to-peer financing. Every user receives a free digital wallet with which they can send, receive and save BTC. The P2P marketplace cuts out the middleman with its secure escrow service and has a 24-hour customer support system dedicated to solving problems for its users. For more information, visit paxful.com . "data-reactid =" 20 ">About Paxful:

Paxful's mission is to provide people with a simple, fair and secure platform to buy and sell Bitcoin. They aim to achieve financial inclusion for sub-banks and non-banks through peer-to-peer financing. Every user receives a free digital wallet with which they can send, receive and save BTC. The P2P marketplace cuts out the middleman with its secure escrow service and has a 24-hour customer support system dedicated to solving problems for its users. For more information, visit paxful.com .

<p class = "canvas-atom canvas-text Mb (1.0em) Mb (0) – sm Mt (0.8em) – sm" type = "text" content = "CONTACT: media contact for chain analysis: Maddie KennedyCommunications director Maddie@chainalysis.com, +1 914 584 0386; Media contact for Paxful: Nina ParagosoHead of Communication nina@paxful.com, +372 5787 4855 "data-reactid =" 21 "> CONTACT: Media contact for chain analysis: Maddie KennedyCommunications director Maddie@chainalysis.com, +1 914 584 0386; Media contact for Paxful: Nina ParagosoHead of Communication nina@paxful.com, +372 5787 4855

<p class = "canvas-atom canvas-text Mb (1.0em) Mb (0) – sm Mt (0.8em) – sm" type = "text" content = "Show original content:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/chainalysis-and-paxful-create-new-compliance-standard-for-peer-to-peer-cryptocurrency-exchanges-301028204.html"data-reactid =" 33 "> Show original content:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/chainalysis-and-paxful-create-new-compliance-standard-for-peer-to-peer-cryptocurrency-exchanges-301028204.html

SOURCES chain analysis