DATE:  23.03.2020, 17:30:55
TITLE: CoinDeal Token – a Wide Range of Earning Possibilities
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/coindeal-token-a-wide-range-of-earning-possibilities/

CoinDeal Token – a Wide Range of Earning Possibilities

Launched in the second quarter of 2019, CDL Token is a rapidly growing project, which has more and more to offer for its users. From the very beginning, CDL was not supposed to be an ordinary token. The goal was to create a functional cryptocurrency which would enable the users of the CoinDeal exchange to gain additional benefits.

Earn a return of up to 11%

The reward in the form of CDL Token for voting reveals many possibilities for CoinDeal users. Not only can you use it to lower your fee or gain access to OTC trading, but now the exchange introduces another feature. By staking CDL Token, the equivalent of up to 11% return in the form of the selected currency: CDL, Bitcoin or USDT.

Staking, which is storing cryptocurrencies by blocking coins in your wallet for a fixed period, to get more profits, will appear on 19th March on CoinDeal. To start, you need to have at least 1000 CDL in your wallet as this is the minimum amount of tokens you can stake, and the maximum length of time to stake is one year. Besides, you can get an extra 30 CDL Tokens for your first staking.

By knowing the value of the tokens at the moment of staking, you can easily find out how much benefit you can receive from it. When you stop staking, the prize and your funds will return to your wallet immediately.

Reduced fees and convenient purchase of BTC

The most attractive feature seems to be an option to reduce the fee by having CDL Tokens in your wallet. Furthermore, CoinDeal has also reduced its standard fees to 0.29% and 0.39% for Maker and Taker. As a 150,000 CDL Token holder, your fees are only 0.05%.

OTC trading on CoinDeal is a convenient and quick way to trade and buy Bitcoins. Until now, it was available for Premium users, but now the exchange has also introduced the possibility to use it with 20,000 CDL Tokens.

New voting system

Voting on CoinDeal is a unique event – the exchange allows its users to choose new crypto. For the first few months, users were able to choose from the list of coins on the CoinDeal website. At the beginning of 2020, voting took place under completely new rules. Once again, CoinDeal met the users’ needs, letting them nominate the new cryptocurrencies that they want to see in the voting and on CoinDeal markets.

The first step that users have to take is nominating their favorite cryptocurrency in the appropriate CoinDeal Twitter post. Then, after about two weeks, the exchange closes the nominations and selects the TOP10 of the most interesting projects to put them in the voting.

Once the voting has started, users can cast one vote within 24 hours for one of the top ten currencies. For each vote, they will receive CDL Tokens in proportion to all votes cast. The last two votings allowed the participants to win the evaluation of the votes cast in USD. After positive feedback from CoinDeal users about this brand new way of casting votes, the system has been rebuilt. The new form of voting is more transparent and useful.

CDL on other exchanges

Since March 2020 CDL has been available on P2PB2B exchange The platform has 483 trading pairs including the CDL/BTC market with the current 24 h volume of over 18K USD. The WhiteBIT exchange is the third platform, besides CoinDeal, which has CDL token market, with over 4K USD 24 h volume on the CDL to the Bitcoin market.

Contact Email Address

kate@coindeal.com

Supporting Link

https://coindeal.com/

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons