DATE:  23.03.2020, 18:22:20
TITLE: Cryptosphere Rolls Out Reading List on Bitcoin (BTC), Finance and Monetary Policy As People Hunker Down With Books and Board Games
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/03/23/cryptosphere-rolls-out-reading-list-on-bitcoin-btc-finance-and-monetary-policy-as-people-hunker-down-with-books-and-board-games/

‏‏‎

Board games are back: Monopoly, Scrabble, Clue, Scattegories, Risk, Battleship – these are some of the hottest items filling up the dinner table to help pass the time. Books are also making the rounds as millions of people across the globe have been ordered to stay at home amidst the coronavirus pandemic.

Bitcoin enthusiast Russell Okung has jump-started a Twitter thread serving up titles for the crypto curious and newbie students looking to learn the basics about finance, Bitcoin and monetary policy.

Okung, an offensive tackle for the Carolina Panthers, is a major Bitcoin supporter who asked the National Football League last year to pay his salary in the world’s leading cryptocurrency.

Pay me in Bitcoin. — Russell Okung (@RussellOkung) May 14, 2019

Now Okung is asking his followers to list titles to help educate people about money.

Says Okung,

“After I was introduced to Bitcoin, I realized that MOST people don’t understand the history of money or how it works. Drop your recommendations for books on money below.”

‏‏‎[media-net300x250]

Reading and Listening for the Crypto Curious via Twitter

1. What Has Government Done to Our Money?

PDF download by Murray Rothbard



2. The Ascent of Money: A Financial History of the World

Book by Niall Ferguson

3. Shelling Out: The Origins of Money

Essay by Nick Szabo

4. Why Buy Bitcoin?

Podcast, Andy Edstrom

5. The Money Masters

Full Documentary

﻿

6. The Road to Serfdom

Book by Frederic Hayek

7. Debt: The First 5,000 Years

Book by David Graeber

8. The Bitcoin Standard

Book by Saifedean Ammous

9. The Ethics of Money Production

Book by Jorg Guido Hulsmann

10. The Theory of Money and Credit

PDF download by Ludwig von Mises

11. The Little Bitcoin Book

Book by Various Authors

12. Money vs Currency – Hidden Secrets Of Money: All Episodes

Mike Maloney

﻿

13.The Creature from Jekyll Island: A Second Look at the Federal Reserve

Book by G. Edward Griffin

14. Tower of Basel: The Shadowy History of the Secret Bank that Runs the World

Book by Adam LeBor

15. Economics in One Lesson: The Shortest and Surest Way to Understand Basic Economics

Book by Henry Hazlitt

16. How The Economic Machine Works

Principles by Ray Dalio

﻿

You can check out the full thread here.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/Africa Studio