DATE:  23.03.2020, 09:52:41
TITLE: PrimeXBT launches new PrimeXBT Turbo Platform to all users
URL:   https://cryptoslate.com/primexbt-launches-new-primexbt-turbo-platform-to-all-users/

Disclosure: This is a sponsored post and readers are encouraged to conduct further research prior to taking any actions related to the content. Learn more »

PrimeXBT, a Bitcoin-based margin trading platform offering up to 1000x leverage across forex, stock indices, commodities, and cryptocurrencies, has now opened up its innovative, new PrimeXBT Turbo platform to all users, providing an opportunity to generate as much as 90 percent profit in 30 seconds.

Following Successful Beta Test, PrimeXBT Turbo Expands to All Users

During an early launch phase, only a select subset of PrimeXBT users previously had access to the PrimeXBT Turbo, allowing the trading platform to stress test the product and ensure stable and reliable performance ahead of a wider launch.

Now, after early access traders have had a chance to utilize the platform and grow their capital faster than ever, PrimeXBT Turbo is ready for rollout to all users.



The all-new PrimeXBT Turbo platform enables traders to enter an ultra-short duration, Bitcoin-settled synthetic contract aimed at simplifying trading and allowing for the fastest profits anywhere in the market.

Contracts consist of UP or DOWN orders placed for one of three individual, short durations. Durations include 30-seconds, one minute, and five minutes.

Positions are entered based on a trader’s expectation of the price moving up or down, regardless of the actual price. So long as the asset is trading at least one tick more or less than the entry when the contract duration has expired, profits will immediately be booked and be made available for reinvestment.

Turbo Enables Up to 90% Profit in 30 Seconds

The speed at which traders can go from position to profit using PrimeXBT Turbo is not possible with any other trading instrument. The platform was designed for simplicity and speed, allowing users to get in and out of trades quickly and within just a few clicks, while still being provided with full details on potential PnL.

However, due to the large profits possible with Turbo, there is also a risk of significant capital loss, so the service isn’t suitable for all clients. It’s also the client’s responsibility to ensure they comply with any local laws or regulations.

New Users Get 1 BTC Demo Account to Trade Risk-Free

Upon trying PrimeXBT Turbo for the first time, each new user account begins as a demo account with a full 1 BTC to trade with and try out Turbo with zero financial risk or personal capital exposure. Those new to this type of trading product can familiarize themselves with the tool and become comfortable before switching to a live account and trading with their own funds.

When ready to begin trading, traders must make a deposit and fund the account to get started, but following the deposit can immediately begin profiting by trading with their own capital.

PrimeXBT has released a user guide and blog with more details on how to get started using the platform.

Turbo Joins A Variety of Innovative Products on PrimeXBT

PrimeXBT Turbo joins the list of some of the most innovative tools across the market, found only on PrimeXBT. The new, high-speed profit-generating Turbo instrument joins the platform’s plethora of powerful trading tools, and a wide variety of trading instruments.



PrimeXBT offers up to 1000x leverage on forex, commodities, stock indexes, and cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and others, long and short positions, stop loss and take profit orders, built-in chart tools and much more – all available at trader’s fingertips via a desktop experience or mobile application.

The successful PrimeXBT Turbo rollout also serves as an example of what to expect when the Covesting Fund Management Module beta is released on April 1, 2020. PrimeXBT will be introducing the new tool via an early beta phase and rewarding beta testers for their assistance in testing out the platform.

Try PrimeXBT Turbo Today

PrimeXBT Turbo is available starting today for all users of the platform. New users are also welcomed to register to the platform and sign up to use PrimeXBT Turbo.

Users that sign up will receive a free 1 BTC demo account to try the platform and trade completely risk-free. For more information, please visit the PrimeXBT blog or read the full PrimeXBT Turbo user guide.

Disclosure: This is a sponsored post brought to you by PrimeXBT. For more information on our rates for sponsored posts, please see our advertising page.