DATE:  23.03.2020, 12:35:55
TITLE: Report: Bitcoin Price Drop Wipes-out 2.3 Million S9 Miners – Is it in a Death Spiral?
URL:   https://coingape.com/65618-2/

The world is currently facing a severe crisis as Coronavirus has spread violently across the entire world. The drop in the price of assets and lock-down in affecting the production cost of things as well. According to reports, the drop in Bitcoin prices is causing wild-scale shutdown in Bitcoin as well.

Advertisement

In research report by Securities Daily’s Xing Meng, Chinese miners are witnessing large-scale shut-down. An industry insider told the Securities Daily reporter,

According to F2pool’s calculation data of the entire network, roughly 2.3 million Ants S9 have been shut down from March 10 to now (reported on 22nd March)

The total Hash Rate for mining jumps above 100 Th/s as the price saw an uptrend to $6000 last week. Nevertheless, it has dropped to $5800-$5900 as the world awakens to worse realities of the spread on Monday. Globally, equity markets are under facing likely to face huge liquidity crisis. If the correlation with the stocks markets continues, the crypto-markets are looking to a downfall as well.

To the Point of Death

As reported earlier on CoinGape, the Bitcoin price is currently threatening to drop below the break-even price of miners. The older S9 miners are powered by 16 nm chips and have been dominating the markets since 2016. However, these systems are now becoming obsolete.

The break-even cost of S17 miners are substantially lower than the older S9 models. The S17 miners are powered by 7 nm chips, which are highly cost effective. According to the report by Secuties Daily, a fall below $2,600 – the break-even cost of S17 miners, will be a huge shock for the industry. However, some of large-scale miners are likely to stay in business.

Advertisement

Moreover, the adjustment in Bitcoin’s Difficulty will also benefit the large-scale miners. Hence, the case for death of the entire mining industry still arguments against it. However, the losses to medium and small scale miners will be huge.

China, the originating country of the Coronavirus now returning to normalcy as it looks like the spread has been contained. Moreover, as it dominates the Bitcoin mining industry it is less likely to be affected due to geographical reason. However, the dropping prices and miner capitulations are likely to accelerate the sell-off as well.

Do you think the crypto-markets will be able to hold-off against the marco-drop in asset prices? Please share your views with us.

Summary Article Name Report: Bitcoin Price Drop Wipes-out 2.3 Million S9 Miners - Is it in a Death Spiral? Description The world is currently facing a severe crisis as Coronavirus has spread violently across the entire world. The drop in the price of assets and lock-down in affecting the production of things as well. Author Nivesh Rustgi Publisher Name CoinGape Publisher Logo

Binance Futures Limited Offer: Use Use this link to register & get 10% discount on fees.



Disclaimer The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Coingape is committed to following the highest standards of journalism, and therefore, it abides by a strict editorial policy . While CoinGape takes all the measures to ensure that the facts presented in its news articles are accurate.The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Instant loans by local bank transfer using your crypto as collateral