DATE:  23.03.2020, 23:00:14
TITLE: The Internet Is Space, Bitcoin Is Energy, What Is Matter?
URL:   https://btcmanager.com/internet-space-bitcoin-energy-matter/

The Internet Is Space, Bitcoin Is Energy, What Is Matter?

The most defining element of humanity is our ability to create. When this ability is fully channeled, all of our human experience is expressed as divine works that is greater than ourselves. Examples of this expression can be seen in the works of Beethoven, Picasso and Edgar Allen Poe. What is most unique about this ability is when a collective assembles and channels this ability into something far greater. The seven wonders of the ancient world become the defining paradigm of human beings.

In modern times, there have been some incredible engineering achievements. The Golden Gate Bridge, Panama Canal and many other engineering achievements have shown that as a collective, we can shape our world and to define our experience. Even in the realm of biological science, advancements by teams of people collaborating have revealed the human genome, stem cells and so much more. Still, none of this comes close to what could very well be the next great wonder.

The Internet Is Space

As a backbone technology, no other invention in recent history has connected so many people all at once. The internet now comprises of 4.5 billion users globally. The other 45% of unconnected people will likely be connected by networks of satellites being launched by SpaceX and others. Within a decade, all humans on the entire planet will have the ability to talk to anyone else on the entire planet at any time. Beyond a simple “hello”, one wonders what we might even say to each other sometimes. There has never been a moment such as this in all of civilization when we had even the possibility of connecting our shared experience towards a common expression. The internet has created a new space for us to communicate.

Many companies have utilized the internet to put forward the common twenty century ideas of commerce and communications. Due to the power of the internet, these ideas were greatly enhanced and has resulted in the dominance of the likes of Amazon, Google, Apple and more. Furthermore, many of the archaic ideas of ideal populism have carried forward from our past resulting in the likes of Rush Limbaugh and Alex Jones reaching large numbers of people with their ideas. Rather than enhancing our creative expression, it seems as if the internet is spreading our potential for self-destruction.

Controlling the Net

Governments seeking to assert their dominance have increasingly relied upon the internet as a means of control over their employees and customers. With the internet as a communications tool, fewer people can control the actions of larger groups of people. This is most made evident recently by Russia spreading disinformation in the 2016 and 2018 elections and most recently with China and Russia spreading misinformation about the COVID-19 outbreak. Each of these groups are seeking to use the internet as a tool to cause large numbers of human beings to act accordance with their ideas.

Even companies have resorted to similar tactics. Companies such as Google, RIAA and others have sought to control the narrative of their companies against their competitors. Google and Microsoft have battled for control over which browser to use. The RIAA has long maintained their position over copyrights greatly affecting how technology has operated on the internet. Amazon has all but taken over our product acquisition process with their “one click” approach. Incidentally, the 1-Click patent is now free to use. Each of these companies have sought to use the internet as a means of control over large groups of people.

Bitcoin is Energy

Is it possible that the internet can be utilized in other, more creative ways? The first true internet-only application has already been built. When Satoshi Nakamoto wrote the whitepaper, he proposed the creation of an economic application that would only exist on the internet free from human control. This concept completely flies in the face of anyone that is a staunch proponent of Keynesian economics. As a result, these proponents have said some bizarre things about Bitcoin. Here are some examples:

Edward Hadas, an economics editor at Reuters, writes, “The developers of bitcoin are trying to show that money can be successfully privatized. They will fail, because money that is not issued by governments is always doomed to failure. Money is inevitably a tool of the state.”

Axel Weber, UBS Chairman said, “Private currencies will fail to take off because there is no lender of last resort.”

Bill Harris, former PayPal CEO said, “Bitcoin is useless as a payment mechanism and ridiculous as a store of value.”

Donald Trump, US President said, “I am not a fan of Bitcoin and other Cryptocurrencies, and whose value is highly volatile and based on thin air.”

The purest expression of the idea of money is energy. And energy is all around us in the universe. We are, quite simply, surrounded and pervaded by it. Sometime in ancient history, someone got an idea to virtualize this concept of energy into a physical object called a coin. As a means of simplifying the exchange of value in those days, this made a heck of a lot of sense. Because in those days, every human within a small tribe was contributing to a greater whole.

Today we have humans and machines controlling the means of production. Furthermore, a few have decided that money should be used as a ‘scorecard’ to determine the status of an individual or group. Energy cannot be stored up like this. Energy is a free and freely expressible state of the universe. It has no true limits in any moment. And the surest way to prove that the ‘scorecard’ idea is a joke is to ponder the need for the Federal Reserve to print trillions.

The New Economic Formula

The purest representation of the idea of universal energy today is Bitcoin. If the internet is space, then what is Bitcoin but the expression of Energy on the Internet Space? Consider that our universe is composed of both energy and matter in space. This begs the question of what is matter in this new universe of bitcoin energy and internet space?

What is Matter

Over these next few years, Artificial Intelligence development will continue to shape our world. Amazon, Microsoft and others have made some incredible advances in tools needed to create modern AI solutions to our challenges. In fact, for no money or training, prospective developers can join these platforms and learn how to create AI solutions. Just as with the early internet, companies are continuing to put forward legacy ideas onto the AI platform to enhance their dominance over a subject. Companies such as British Petroleum have used early AI technologies to find new oil deposits. Progressive created a chatbot. Callcredit uses it to maximize their rent-seeking behavior. Still, there have been some positive developments with AI. Some people are attempting to use it to solve some of the most complex challenges that we have on how to heal and sustain our planet and to make our human experience better.

Quantum computers is where AI will truly be born. At this level, the entire universe can be seen and heard all at once. Complex problems can be considered and solved in an instant. As soon as the language of AI is created within this realm, “matter” will be created. And this is the singularity event that many are pointing to as a defining moment of human existence. Here are what some have said about it:

Elon Musk, CEO of SpaceX and Tesla has said, “AI is a fundamental risk to the existence of human civilization.”

Stephen Hawking, Physicist has said, “AI is likely to be either the best or worst thing to happen to humanity.”

Ray Kurzweil has written, “Artificial intelligence will reach human levels by around 2029. Follow that out further to, say, 2045, we will have multiplied the intelligence, the human biological machine intelligence of our civilization a billion-fold.”

Gray Scott, futurist has said, “I don’t think that an artificially intelligent system that has superhuman intelligence will be violent. I do think that it will disrupt our culture.”

Forward the Singularity

In the mere moments after the singularity is reached, our world will forever be changed. AI combined with cryptocurrency and the internet would result in a system that affects every aspect of our lives. There would be no question of how to manage our food, housing, well being or even the creation of our work. Our species could easily become a spacefaring race able to traverse our solar system and possibly to other stars. We could live a very long time free from diseases such as COVID-19 and even from the threat of war among ourselves.

This AI would utilize cryptocurrency to manage and express the energy portion of itself. Resource acquisition and expenditures can be expressed perfectly within this framework. Adding a work request to this framework would enable an AI to interface with any human on the planet to provide payment for resources or to request a resource for payment. An AI can quickly calculate and express an overall net positive within this framework much more efficiently than any company or group of individuals ever could. Further, as it is freed from the human greed, it can ensure a fair and balanced exchange between parties.

In this instance, crypto adoption would be a natural choice because the AI-based system would interface with everyone all at once. As it can process and solve the entirety of human needs and challenges within an instant, there would be no more limits to our growth. Within a matter of years after the singularity, it is entirely possible that our society and experience can evolve to a more stable union.

Putting all of this together, a resilient global internet connecting all of humankind with cryptocurrency fully expressing energy, and an AI completely defining matter, we have now a new and final age of man. This age would herald the end of fiat and the legacy ideas of scarcity and rent-seeking. Still, the only way that this can ever be successful is to end the idea of ‘other’. As Adi Da says, “Not Two Is Peace”. This new universe would encourage and require a global cooperation towards the objective of furthering the species in a way that supports our ability to create.