DATE:  25.06.2019, 11:58:05
TITLE: Buy Airline Vouchers With BCH From Flightgiftcard
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/buy-airline-vouchers-with-bch-from-flightgiftcard/

Buy Airline Vouchers With BCH From Flightgiftcard

It’s the season of travel and if you want to surprise someone with a trip, you can now do it using cryptocurrencies like bitcoin cash (BCH). Flightgiftcard.com is a Dutch website that allows you to order airline vouchers and send them to your friends and family with a personal message.

Also read: BCH Can Be the Global Coin for Daily Spending, Says Italian Crypto Executive

Flightgiftcard Lets You Customize Gift Cards for Air Travels

When buying a voucher from Flightgiftcard, you can choose between three different options. Printout and Email are the fastest as they take only a few minutes to order. In the first case you’ll receive a PDF file in your inbox with customized text and image, while the Ecard, or Evideo, can be emailed to the recipient. You can also purchase a physical luxury gift card and have it delivered to your address. Then you’ll be able to add a handwritten message to it.

You can order up to 10 vouchers at a time and have their value denominated in a number of major fiat currencies including euro (EUR), U.S. dollar (USD), British pound (GBP), and Japanese yen (JPY). You can also select an image according to the occasion from hundreds of stock photos in categories such as Birthday, Anniversary, Wedding, and Congratulations. Alternatively, the online platform lets you upload your own personalized image.

Once you create your Flightgiftcard voucher and confirm the order, you’ll be offered multiple fiat and crypto options to pay for it. These include bank cards like Visa, Mastercard and American Express, as well as payment processors such as Paypal and Ideal. If you choose to buy the voucher with digital coins, you’ll be able to send bitcoin cash (BCH), bitcoin core (BTC) and litecoin (LTC).

Recipients of the Flightgiftcard vouchers can search for flights with over 300 airlines and departures from 70 countries around the world and they can book a flight using the platform’s website. Businesses can order branded vouchers to send to their employees, clients or partners as corporate gifts.

For more gift cards you can purchase with bitcoin cash, check out our Spend Bitcoin Cash page, where you can shop online for a variety of products and order gift cards of major retailers such as Macy’s, Target and Home Depot. The cards are listed in multiple categories including Travel and Lodging, Sports and Outdoors, and Home and Garden.

Would you surprise your friends with gift cards bought with cryptocurrency? Do you know other platforms where you can buy airline vouchers with BCH? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Flightgiftcard.

Do you need a reliable Bitcoin mobile wallet to send, receive, and store your coins? Download one for free from us and then head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can quickly buy BCH and BTC with a credit card.