DATE:  09.05.2019, 12:45:10
TITLE: Stay in Touch With Markets Using the Cryptowatch App
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/stay-in-touch-with-markets-using-the-cryptowatch-app/

Stay in Touch With Markets Using the Cryptowatch App

Cryptocurrency prices and market trends are constantly in flux. Cryptowatch is an Android Wear application that updates users about price changes on the go. It’s always with you, even when your smartphone is not around or runs out of battery.

Also read: Coin 360 Provides Color-Based Crypto Market Data

Android Wear Cryptowatch App Keeps You Updated on Prices

Cryptowatch is a simple and easy to set up watch face for Android Wear OS smartwatches. The app updates you on the latest price of hundreds of cryptocurrencies including digital coins such as bitcoin cash (BCH).

The watch face is customizable in terms of choosing the cryptos you are interested in, displaying their prices in different fiat currencies, and changing the background color. You can also use it to track a portfolio of digital coins you own.

The software is capable of pulling price data from various sources like Coinmarketcap and a number of cryptocurrency exchanges such as Bitstamp, Bittrex, Poloniex, Coinbase, Gdax, Kraken, and Coincap.

The watch face automatically updates the numbers every five minutes to save battery but it has force refresh by clicking as well. Its settings can be adjusted both from your smartwatch and via the phone app it’s provided with.

Cryptowatch comes with complication support, which means it can be used with other watch faces on Android Wear 2.0. For example, Coinmarketwear is a chart complication wallpaper which provides weekly cryptocurrency charts that can be set as background. It takes the charts from Coinmarketcap, supports BCH among eight cryptocurrencies, and refreshes every hour.

In case you need to stay updated about the price and market caps of many more cryptocurrencies, you can also refer to the Bitcoin Markets page developed by Bitcoin.com. Track your favorite coins and compare their indicators in major crypto and fiat currencies. Check out our Bitcoin Charts page as well.

Do you use an app to track crypto prices on your smartwatch? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Cryptowatch.

Enjoy the easiest way to buy Bitcoin online with us. Download your free Bitcoin wallet and head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can buy BCH and BTC securely.