DATE:  10.07.2019, 09:30:32
TITLE: PR: My BitIRA Launches to Empower US Consumers With 24/7 Cryptocurrency Retirement Account Access
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-my-bitira-launches-to-empower-us-consumers-with-24-7-cryptocurrency-retirement-account-access/

PR: My BitIRA Launches to Empower US Consumers With 24/7 Cryptocurrency Retirement Account Access

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Burbank, Calif., July 10, 2019 – BitIRA — pioneer of the first insured cold storage solution for cryptocurrency retirement accounts — has launched its newest tool, the “My BitIRA” investing platform. My BitIRA maximizes the transparency and control individuals in the U.S. have over their cryptocurrency retirement accounts by granting direct access to monitor value and start transactions.

My BitIRA is a secure online portal that gives consumers the ability to track the performance of their tax-deferred cryptocurrency-based IRA whenever they choose, as well as initiate transactions. Users can view their portfolio’s performance over time — gaining real-time visibility into their returns — and they can also generate custom reports to show the investing details they value most.

This new platform makes it easier for users to have an active role in their account maintenance. Individual customers can use the funds from their IRA rollovers and other contributions to launch transactions to buy, trade or sell cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Ripple, Stellar Lumens, Litecoin and ZCash. Live feeds of currency values alongside market news provide additional context for informed decision-making.

One critical feature is the ability to access wallet addresses, which allows customers to independently verify the performance of their investment.

Already established as an industry leader in security, BitIRA has been demonstrating its commitment to transparency and education. “We are dedicated to meeting the needs of our customers and continuing to demonstrate how much we value and deserve their trust,” said Jay Blaskey, Head of Sales at BitIRA. “Giving users 24/7 access to their account details and performance was the logical next step in delivering on our commitments and helping our customers get the information they need about their retirement accounts.”

Although similar customer portals are common in other industries, only two self-directed IRA companies focused exclusively on cryptocurrency retirement investing — BitIRA and BitcoinIRA — offer their customers this level of access to account management.

Customers may access “My BitIRA” for their accounts by visiting https://my.bitira.com.

About BitIRA:

Based in Burbank, California, BitIRA is a leading specialist in the setup and management of cryptocurrency holdings in self-directed IRAs. Founded by team members from Birch Gold Group with extensive precious metals IRA experience, the company was established on the belief that Americans should have easier access to the wide range of conventional and alternative assets available to hold in their tax-advantaged retirement accounts. Aside from facilitating the setup and management of digital currency IRAs, BitIRA advocates for public awareness of available investment options.

For more information about BitIRA or to sign up for a digital currency IRA, visit https://www.bitira.com.

Contact Email Address

aklein@bitira.com

Supporting Link

https://my.bitira.com

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.