DATE:  20.02.2020, 14:00:32
TITLE: $7.8 Trillion Asset Giant Fidelity Hiring Bitcoin (BTC) Engineer, Plans to Scale Its Cryptocurrency Mining Operation
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/02/20/7-8-trillion-asset-giant-fidelity-hiring-bitcoin-btc-engineer-plans-to-scale-its-cryptocurrency-mining-operation/

‏‏‎

Fidelity Center for Applied Technology (FCAT), the innovation arm of the $7.8 trillion financial services giant Fidelity, is looking for a Bitcoin engineer amid plans to scale the company’s cryptocurrency mining operations.

According to a job listing on the company website, the Bitcoin mining engineer will join a group within the FCAT that’s in charge of exploring blockchain technologies. The successful candidate will design, build and maintain the infrastructure that will run and scale Fidelity’s Bitcoin mining operation.

“We have a multi-disciplinary team of software engineers, researchers, designers, product managers, and security and compliance experts. We’re growing our team to accelerate the development of a new business opportunity that we’ve identified…

The role will be part of our mining team and will be responsible to design, build, and maintain the infrastructure to run and scale our business.”

The ideal talent is someone with experience in building databases with at least three years of experience in software development and information-technology operations, and an interest in Bitcoin and crypto mining.

‏‏‎

Fidelity first started mining Bitcoin and Ethereum (ETH) in 2014. At the 2017 Consensus conference, Fidelity CEO Abby Johnson revealed that the brokerage firm was profiting from its mining enterprise. At the time, Johnson said the purpose of the company’s mining operation is to study the cryptocurrency market.

A year later, in October of 2018, Fidelity launched Fidelity Digital Assets to provide institutional investment services for the cryptocurrency industry.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/Jiap