DATE:  20.02.2020, 10:40:24
TITLE: Bitcoin Superstar and Bitcoin Era - The Latest Two Faces of the Same Scam
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-superstar-bitcoin-era/

Bitcoin Superstar and Bitcoin Era - The Latest Two Faces of the Same Scam

With the rising price and popularity of bitcoin come numerous scams. Bitcoin Superstar and Bitcoin Era are two investment schemes that have recently gained much attention. News.Bitcoin.com took a look at them, and it did not take much to spot how similar they are to each other and several other well-known scams.

Also read: Bitcoin, Tesla Stock, Tron: How Warren Buffett Got His First Bitcoin

Bitcoin Superstar vs Bitcoin Era – Same Template, Different Names

Bitcoin Superstar and Bitcoin Era are currently two of the most popular bitcoin investment schemes, but it does not take long to spot how scammy their websites are. For a start, they both have the same cookie-cutter template. They both display a warning in red at the top stating that “Due to extremely high media demand, we will close registration as of 19/02/2020 – Hurry.” Such urgency and scarcity tactics have long been used to pressure people into buying many products.

Next comes the hype. Both the Bitcoin Superstar and the Bitcoin Era websites display numerous hype phrases, such as “Bitcoin is making people rich,” “you can become the next millionaire,” and “change your life today.” Both schemes also feature the same video, starting with CNN coverage, followed by well-known people including Richard Branson, speaking positively about bitcoin. To gain more credibility, the two sites additionally display logos of Bitgo, Norton, Secure Trading, and McAfee, with “As seen on” CNN, FT.com, Time, and Forbes.

Bitcoin Superstar describes itself as a group of “people who jumped on the insane returns that bitcoin offers,” emphasizing that its members “make money on their laptop with just a few minutes of ‘work’ every day.” Bitcoin Era posted a similar message, with a focus on its trading software. “With the Bitcoin Era software, you can take advantage of the profit potential in the bitcoin and cryptocurrency markets,” its website describes.

The Fake Testimonials

How can one sell a scam without glowing testimonials? The next section of both the Bitcoin Superstar and the Bitcoin Era websites showcases the supposed testimonials of their successful traders. At the time of this writing, Bitcoin Superstar displays “Real testemonials from our users,” with the word testimonials misspelled. Both websites use the same four people’s images but change their names, locations, and the amount of profit they made.

The four user images can be found on many other websites. For example, the picture of the first user (Mark K. from Forth Worth, TX, on Bitcoin Superstar, who is also James H. from San Antonio, TX, on Bitcoin Era) can be downloaded from free stock photo website Pexels.com.

The Same Cookie-Cutter Template Used by Many Scams

Bitcoin Superstar and Bitcoin Era are not the only ones using the same cookie-cutter template. These scams will keep appearing as long as there are people willing to shell out money to join them. Scamcryptorobots.com has named plenty more scams that are using the same website format. Among them are Bitcoin Investor, Bitcoin Revolution, Bitcoin Trader, Bitcoin Evolution, Bitcoin Formula, Bitcoin Secret, Crypto Revolt, Bitcoin Rush, and Crypto Xchange. The website also mentions another viral scam called Bitcoin Billionaire and notes that the first scam of this format was Bitcoin Trader.

Over time, some of these websites may have changed their appearance. Bitcoin Era, for example, has put up another website with the same logo. There have also been several Bitcoin Era press releases published on some crypto news websites.

The Scamcryptorobots website also notes that there are fake reviews and fake news stories for these scams. In addition to warning about three bitcoin scams, including Bitcoin Code and Bitcoin Trader, news.Bitcoin.com has outlined how to spot scams like Bitcoin Doubler Club, Cryptomia247, Mining Cheap, Orelex Financial Services, and Wintrust Expert Options.

$250 Upfront Investment, €13,000 in 24 Hours Guaranteed

It is always a red flag when an investment scheme asks for money upfront as Bitcoin Superstar and Bitcoin Era do. To get involved with either of them, you need to register on their websites and fund your account. “So to start profiting with the Bitcoin Superstar, you must invest any amount you desire of $250 or more,” its website states. Bitcoin Era asks for a similar upfront investment while claiming that its trading software is free to use. However, you are unlikely to ever see your $250 again. Both Bitcoin Superstar and Bitcoin Era also entice new signups by posting fake, unverifiable profits their traders supposedly made. At one point, Bitcoin Superstar even displayed on its website: “Bitcoin Superstar ride on the bitcoin wave and earn €13,000 ($14,038) in exactly 24 hours. Guaranteed.”

Bitcoin Era advertises that it has “created an incredible trading software which provides highly accurate trade signals, allowing just about anybody to make massive profits from the bitcoin and cryptocurrency markets.” The scheme further claims: “With an unprecedented accuracy rate of 99.4%, the Bitcoin Era software will keep making you profits each and every single day without you having to worry about losing.” As icing on the cake, Bitcoin Era wrote: “Many of our users have reported making thousands of dollars per day using our advanced trading algorithms and the reality is, the earning potential is limitless.” Commenting on this unrealistic claim, a Bitcoin Era review article on the Scamcryptorobots site describes:

In reality the only exclusive club you are invited to join is a losing club designed by professional con artists in order to rip you off and steal your money … So if you really believe you are about to make £979.98 every day for the rest of your life, you are in for a rude awakening.

The type of promises Bitcoin Era and Bitcoin Superstar make has gotten many companies in trouble with regulators around the world. Some of them have been reported to the authorities. However, it takes time for each scam to be sanctioned and the scheme shut down. Meanwhile, they continue to prey on uninformed investors, luring in victims who hope to make easy money. The bottom line is any scam can put up any number of websites, call the scheme by different names, and generate a new look and feel. Remember, if the promise sounds too good to be true, it is most likely not true, and if any red flags are there, exercise extreme caution.

What do you think of Bitcoin Superstar and Bitcoin Era? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.



Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Bitcoin Superstar, Bitcoin Era, and Scamcryptorobots.com.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.