DATE:  20.02.2020, 14:14:11
TITLE: Top Blockchain Companies in India Making a Mark
URL:   https://www.altcoinbuzz.io/cryptocurrency-news/blockchain-technology/top-blockchain-companies-in-india-making-a-mark/

As blockchain technology is picking up pace, Governments are trying to shred their hard stance and adopt a more lenient approach. It’s been a long time since the Reserve Bank of India banned banks from dealing with cryptocurrency-related transactions. The country has moved on. New and interesting developments are coming up every day.

Binance recently acquired WazirX in a multimillion-dollar move and Matic Network made it to the Top 100 by Market Cap.

Below is an excerpt from a report by The National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) published in 2019. The report showcases several Indian Blockchain start-ups and the breadth of their services.

Source: Nasscom

We have handpicked some of the most important projects and explored them further.

Note that the below list is not in any particular order of preference.

Company size: 51-200 employees

Specialties: SaaS, Digital Contracts, Biometric Identification, ID Verification, Digital background verification, Bank-grade Digital Onboarding, KYC, AML/CFT, Digital Identity, Artificial Intelligence – Computer Vision, and Customer Onboarding

About the company: Signzy works with financial institutions. The company aims to make digital regulatory processes simple, secure and compliant. They human-like fraud detection using Artificial Intelligence and Blockchain.

Signzy’s innovation has been widely recognized. The company has received awards from Indian Banking regulator- Reserve Bank of India, IBM, Thomson Reuters, Forbes, HDFC Life, Monetary Authority of Singapore. Signzy today works with over 70 clients including the top public, private sector banks, etc.

Source: Teamsignzy

Company size: 11-50 employees

Specialties: Blockchain/ Cryptography Research and Development

About the company: Elemential labs are building a blockchain development ecosystem. It focusses on making enterprise adoption a smoother experience for both the developer and the enterprise. Their product, Hadron, makes blockchain administration a secure and easily managed process. Enterprises need not worry about protocol level risks and overhead, which today occupy a significant portion of their time before they can get to build their application.

Source: Elemential Labs

Company size: 11-50 employees

Specialties: Deep Tech, e-KYC, Virality Engineering & Design, VC Investment, Decentralized.

About the company: Diro has developed a fully decentralized global identity platform. The platform has very strong anti-fraud & anti-impersonation procedures built-into it. It can completely prevent fraud or stolen or fake identities. The e-KYC platform helps businesses & regulators correctly identify legal & verified identities in a far safer & better manner than dealing with images & photocopies of identity documents. Diro’s e-KYC solution is currently used by many banks.

Key Highlights:

20+ patents in cyber-security and verification of identities.

Fundraising of $1.5+ mn + R&D Expense Reimbursements

The team was awarded National Award-2017 for best ICT start-up (India)

Source: Diro

Industry: Banking

Company size: 2-10 employees

About the company: Nuo.Network is a decentralized debt marketplace that connects lenders and borrowers across the world using smart contracts. Nuo acts as a financial control center to store, spend and grow any cryptocurrency. Nuo Networks offerings include:

Users can store all their cryptocurrencies in Nuo App

Make payments at a shop with a Nuo Card

Make near instant peer to peer transfers over Nuo.Network.

Avail global financial products and services at one place via Nuo Play.

Source: Nuo Network

Company size: 51-200 employees

Specialties: Data as a Service, Analytics, Big Data, Machine Learning, Data Science, and Blockchain

About the company: Zebi is a full-stack (infrastructure & products) core-blockchain company founded by Silicon Valley veterans. Zebi Mainnet is a multi-chain and multi-token platform.

Zebi Chain 2.1 is an enterprise-grade private blockchain platform. Zapps are Zebi’s products that are built on top of its public and private chains with specialized IP/modules for each use case and the business vertical. Zapp (Zebi Dapps) development facilitates libraries for several data and security use cases.

Zebi has 20+ PoCs, 5+ live products, 40+ customers, and 2 Million+ digital records blockchained.

Source: Zebi official forums

Company size: 11-50 employees

Specialties: Blockchain, Ethereum Scaling, Distributed Ledger Technology, Blockchain Governance, and Payment

About the company: Matic network aims to improve the usability and convenience of Ethereum by leveraging a combination of blockchain scaling, developer platform and tools, and a rabid focus on user experience. It provides asset interoperability and promises to be a One-stop DeFi Platform. The project uses an adapted version of Plasma with PoS based side chains. Matic sidechain theoretically achieves 216 transactions per block. The chain has the potential to achieve millions of transactions on multiple chains in the future.

Source: Matic official forums

Company size: 51-200 employees

Specialties: IT Business Consulting, Blockchain Technology, Business Application Development, FinTech, Cyber Security, and IT outsourcing

About the company: Auxesis Group is a technical innovation company with advance competency in FinTech and Blockchain Technology. The company is working with the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay Entrepreneurship Cell & European Incubator (SEED) start-up projects from idea until there Transformation Phase. The company has collaborations with Blockchain Lab, London, Multichain, E-Cell IIT Bombay.

Auxesis Group is powering several distributed ledger applications globally to revolutionize Banking, Remittance, Insurance, Supply Chain, Event, and Ticketing industry while Pharmaceuticals, Luxury Goods, Gambling are under consideration.

Source: Auxesis group

Company size: 51-200 employees

Specialties: Mobile App Development, Responsive web design and development, eCommerce website and development, IOT Development, Wearable Apps Development, ChatBots Develo, ICO advisory, Blockchain development, Smart Contracts, Hyperledger Chaincode, artificial intelligence, Big data and analytics, and Custodial wallet development

About the company: Solulab is a Digital & Technological solution provider which works in blockchain, AI, IoT, mobile app and web development space.

The company has a prominent team of developers & designers having extensive experience in their respective fields. Solu Labs is led by alumni of Ex-Vice President of Goldman Sachs and Principal solution Architect of Citrix who have more than 20 years of experience in development.

The company was formed in 2014 and to this date, they have 50+ prominent clients and completed more than 90 high-end projects with a success ratio of over 95%. Their clients are spread over more than 12 countries.

Source: Solu Labs

Disclaimer:

Altcoin Buzz does not endorse any of these projects. We wish all of these projects all the best!

Related Article: Blockchain in India: What’s Happening?