DATE:  23.04.2019, 15:45:07
TITLE: Paytomat Enables Merchants to Accept 18 Cryptocurrencies In-Store
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/paytomat-enables-merchants-to-accept-18-cryptocurrencies-in-store/

Paytomat Enables Merchants to Accept 18 Cryptocurrencies In-Store

Accepting cryptocurrency payments in your store doesn’t require specialist hardware or complex integration – Paytomat is proof. The crypto payment gateway enables merchants to accept 18 cryptocurrencies including BCH using their existing equipment. To date, hundreds of brick and mortar stores across four continents have added crypto support using Paytomat.

Also read: Crypto-Based Transfers Can Cut Remittance Costs in Africa by 90%

Hassle-Free Crypto Payments at the Point of Sale

Over the last two years, Paytomat has quietly been making a name for itself as an accomplished crypto PoS solution. From its base in Europe, the company has spread its wings and now lists hundreds of stores in countries as diverse as Venezuela, Netherlands, and the United States. A dropdown menu on the Paytomat website enables shoppers to filter through shops and restaurants to find crypto-accepting businesses in their area.

In addition to BCH, Paytomat supports over a dozen cryptocurrencies including BTC, ZEN, EOS, and ETH. Merchants incur zero fees, and can withdraw funds in a fiat currency of their choice if desired, with Paytomat hedging the risk incurred by potential cryptocurrency volatility.

Simple Merchant Integration

Paytomat integrates with a number of established PoS systems, enabling merchants to add cryptocurrency support using their existing hardware. Upon upgrading their software to incorporate digital currency, the only visual difference the merchant will see is the addition of a button marked “Crypto” that appears on the payment terminal, alongside the “Card” and “Cash” buttons. When a customer pays for goods using cryptocurrency, a QR code is added to the check, which the customer scans before transferring the amount to the merchant’s wallet.

To date, more than 300 merchants have begun using Paytomat to accept cryptocurrency including beauty salons and medical practices. For merchants interested in introducing cryptocurrency as a payment option, Paytomat provides an enrolment form on its website to start the process. Encouraging greater adoption of digital assets on a daily basis is a vision shared by many cryptocurrency projects, including advocates of bitcoin cash. Solutions like Paytomat play their part in helping to realize that goal.

Have you spent cryptocurrency in-store? If so, what was your experience of doing so? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image credits: Shutterstock and Paytomat

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.