DATE:  23.04.2019, 19:25:51
TITLE: You Should Buy Bitcoin Instead of Sony’s $70,000 98-inch 8K TV — Here’s Why
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/you-should-buy-bitcoin-instead-of-sonys-70000-98-inch-8k-tv-heres-why/

Sony is finally unveiling its 8K TV line for 2019, with its star attraction being a massive 98-inch television with a price tag of $70,000 — but is that really worth your money?

[Disclaimer: This article is not financial advice.]

Even though there’s barely anything to watch in the resolution yet, 8K televisions are here.

The 8K-capable Master Series Z9G will start at $13,000 for an 85-inch model. However, the crown jewel of the series will be a $70,000 98-inch 8K TV.

Are We Ready for 8K Resolution?

Aside from the mind-blowing price tag, there’s another significant problem — there is currently too little to watch in 8K resolution. It seems like Sony is hoping to preemptively release an 8K-capable television before such programming is even available.

The flashy product just may also be pre-empting the imminent release of the 8K capable PlayStation 5, which is expected next year.

Why Not Just Buy Bitcoin?

If you’re a cryptocurrency nerd, the $70,000 price might make you wonder: how many bitcoins could you buy with that kind of money?

As of now, over 13 bitcoins. That’s right: you could buy over 13 bitcoins instead of Sony’s 98-inch 8K television. Given that the value of televisions tends to depreciate rapidly after purchase, it should be obvious what the better choice is here.

Even better, you can buy an appreciating asset like Bitcoin (BTC) and then put your profits towards an 8K TV when it is actually useful and affordable. This way, you’ll reap your Bitcoin returns for a nice, futuristic 8K TV — a year or two from now. That’s a win-win for cryptocurrency investors and TV lovers, both!

So, when it comes to 8K TVs, save your money in 2019. As impressive as it might be, you probably don’t need it anyway.

Is buying an 8K TV really a good investment in 2019? Wouldn’t that money better be invested in an appreciating asset like Bitcoin, now that the market has potentially bottomed out? Tell us what you think down below.

Disclaimer: This article is not financial advice and should not be construed as such. Always consult a trained financial professional before making any investments. The cryptocurrency market and Bitcoin are exceptionally risky, and the possibility exists to lose your entire investment.

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.