DATE:  24.01.2020, 23:36:00
TITLE: Odds and Betting Guide - Vegas Odds
URL:   https://www.vegasodds.com/soccer/brasileirao-serie-a/

There aren’t many countries in the world that take football more seriously than the Brazilians. The Brasileirao Serie A is the top tier for the sport in Brazil, and it is one of the most hotly contested leagues in world football. There are 20 teams involved in the top-tier, with teams that finish towards the bottom of the league getting relegated into Serie B. There are various betting options for punters when it comes to the top tier in Brazil.

Brasileirao Serie A Odds

Vegas Odds moneyline total spread american decimal fractional

Best Sportsbooks for Betting on Serie A

These are the best sportsbooks that we recommend as of 2020 based on bonuses, odds and overall betting experience:

#1 Rating







4.9 First Deposit Bonus 50% UP TO $1000 US Players Accepted

Promo Code: BOL1000 (Minimum Deposit: $55) Bet Now Terms & Conditions Terms & Conditions MINIMUM deposit of $55.00 is required to qualify for the bonus. You will receive a 50% bonus on your qualifying first deposit only. Deposits via Skrill and Neteller do not qualify for this bonus. The maximum bonus per deposit is $1,000.00. Read the full terms and conditions here. #2 Rating







4.8 First Deposit Bonus 100% UP TO $1000 US Players Accepted

Promo Code: VEGASODDS (10x Rollover Requirement) Bet Now Terms & Conditions Terms & Conditions $1,000 First Deposit Bonus is credited as a 50% Sportsbook Bonus.

We match 1/2 of what you deposit as a bonus.

Enter promo code MYB50 in the cashier.

Bonus is instantly credited to your Free Play balance.

Maximum bonus is $1,000.

10x rollover requirement.

Promotion only available on first deposit.

MyBookie reserves the right to alter or amend the terms and conditions of this promotion at any time without notice. Read the full terms and conditions click here. #3 Rating







4.5 First Deposit Bonus 50% UP TO $1000 US Players Accepted

Promo Code: SB1000 (Minimum Deposit: $25) Bet Now Terms & Conditions Terms & Conditions A MINIMUM deposit of $55.00 is required to qualify for the bonus. You will receive a 50% bonus on your qualifying first deposit only. Deposits via Skrill and Neteller do not qualify for this bonus. The maximum bonus per deposit is $1,000. Read the full terms and conditions here. #4 Rating







4.4 First Deposit Bonus 50% UP TO $300 US Players Accepted

Promo Code: VEGASODDS (3x to 10x Rollover Requirement) Bet Now Terms & Conditions Terms & Conditions This is a limited-time offer, valid only on the first deposit. A minimum $45 deposit is required to qualify for the 50% Sign-Up Bonus. There is a 7x rollover requirement associated with this promotion. Xbet reserves the right to alter or amend the terms and conditions of this promotion at any time without notice. Read the full terms and conditions click here. #5 Rating







4.3 First Deposit Bonus 100% UP TO $100 US Players Accepted

Promo Code: ROOKIE100 (6x Rollover Requirement) Bet Now Terms & Conditions Terms & Conditions The bonus code must be redeemed immediately after the deposit and before any wager has been placed. The bonus and the deposit need to be rolled over 6x at min. odds of -200 (1.5) before a payout is possible Max. $100 of every bet count towards the rollover Read the full terms and conditions click here.

Brasileirao Serie A History

Compared to other countries, Brazil doesn’t have the same kind of history when it comes to their domestic league. There are various reasons behind that, but the pivotal reason why there wasn’t a domestic competition until 1959 was down to historical events and the size of the country. The competition officially began in 1959 because of advancements in travel which allowed teams to travel for fixtures. It was also a pivotal period in time to start because Brazil needed to pick a representative for the Copa Libertadores.

Teams from the Torneiro Rio and Sao Paulo region were added to the competition in time for the 1989 championship. The Brazilian Football Confederation made the big decision in 2010 to count the winners of the Taca Brasil and Torneio Roberto Gomes Pedrosa in the history of the Brasileirao. The quality of the teams in the league isn’t something that should be disputed, as the division boasts more Club World Cup winners than any other country. It is also the fourth most-watched league in the world, behind the Premier League, La Liga and Serie A.

Brasileirao Serie A Winners

Since the first instalment of the competition in 1959, there have been 156 clubs to have played in the domestic top flight in Brazil. However, only 17 of these clubs have been able to win the top prize, with 12 of these clubs having won the competition on more than one occasion. Palmeiras are the only team to have won ten league titles, while Santos are in second place for the most wins with eight successes.

Corinthians have won the competition on seven occasions while reigning champions Flamengo have won the Brasileirao Serie A on six occasions. Sao Paulo have also won the championship on six occasions. Santos also holds the record for the most consecutive wins, as they won the league title on five occasions between 1961 and 1965. No team has ever been able to achieve that feat since.

Season Winners 2019 Flamengo 2018 Palmeiras 2017 Corinthians 2016 Palmeiras 2015 Corinthians

Betting On The Brasileirao Serie A Winners

The most popular ante-post betting market available to punters allows them to bet on the winners of the Brasileirao Serie A. Punters will lay their stake on the team that they believe will win, and the bet is settled once the winners have been decided. If the team that the punter has betted on wins, then the punter will be rewarded the returns. However, if the team that they have staked on doesn’t win the league title, then the stake is lost. Punters can use this betting market throughout the season, but the best time to get value is at the beginning of the campaign.

Relegation In Brasileirao Serie A

Like many of the top divisions in world football, the Brasileirao Serie A also has a trapdoor which teams need to avoid. The teams in places between 17th and 20th are relegated into Serie B. These teams are then replaced by the teams that have finished in the top four of Serie B, which means the division is constantly evolving with new teams coming into the division to keep it fresh.

Season Relegated Team Relegated Team Relegated Team Relegated Team 2019 Cruzeiro CSA Chapecoense Avai 2018 Sport America Mineiro Vitoria Parana 2017 Coritiba Avai Ponte Preta Atletico Goianiense 2016 America Mineiro Santa Cruz Figueirense Internacional 2015 Avai Vasco da Gama Goias Joinville

Betting On Relegation in Brasileirao Serie A

Punters can take advantage of the relegation battle in the Brasileirao Serie A by placing their money on the teams that will go down at the end of the season. Punters will be able to place their bets throughout the season, with returns being awarded to the punter should they put their stake on a team that is relegated at the end of the campaign. However, if the team the punter has betted on stays in the division, then the stake is lost.

Individual Match Betting In Brasileirao Serie A

There are 380 matches played per season in the Brasileirao Serie A, which means there are always opportunities for punters to find the best value in their bets. All of these games have a variety of markets available, but some are more popular than others. Here are some of the most popular markets that punters can bet on for the fixtures in the top tier in Brazil.

Match Betting

The most popular way to place a bet on a fixture in the Brasileirao Serie A is by putting a stake on the result of a match. Punters can put their stake on a win for either side or a draw. The bet is settled when the final whistle is blown. If the desired outcome is achieved, then the punter is handed the returns. However, if they are wrong, then the stake is lost.

Handicap Betting

Some of the teams towards the top of the table often go on long winning runs, so when they come up against out of form sides, the handicap market is the best way to get value. Here, the favoured side will start with a disadvantage that they will need to overcome. For instance, Gremio may start a game against Avai with a -2.5 handicap. For the bet to win, Gremio must win by at least three goals. If they don’t, then the stake is lost.

Both Teams To Score

If you don’t want to bet on the team that will win the match, then punters can instead bet on whether both teams will score in a particular match. For this bet to be a winner, both teams have to score in the match if the punter has placed their stake on yes. It doesn’t matter which team wins, as long as both sides find the net.

Over/Under Markets

Punters can find good value in the over and under markets when it comes to the number of goals, corners and cards in a fixture. The sportsbook will set a benchmark for a particular fixture, and the punter will simply have to bet on whether there will be more or fewer goals, corners or cards that that number. For instance, if the sportsbook sets a benchmark of 2.5 goals, then the punter can bet on there being more. For that bet to be a winner, there needs to be at least three goals in the match.