DATE:  22.12.2019, 23:00:50
TITLE: Only 375 Days Left for McAfee's $1M Bitcoin Price Wager
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/only-375-days-left-for-mcafees-1m-bitcoin-price-wager/

Only 375 Days Left for McAfee's $1M Bitcoin Price Wager

As the end of 2019 approaches, it means there will be one year left for John McAfee’s infamous wager that said the price per bitcoin would “reach $1,000,000 before the end of 2020.” If the forecast doesn’t come to fruition, he said that he would eat his family jewels on television. At the moment, the price of BTC is 95% below McAfee’s prediction.

Also Read: John McAfee Weighs in on Maximalism, Epstein’s Death, and ‘the Greatest Gift Since Fire’

John McAfee’s Infamous Bet

In 2017, John McAfee made a bet that the price of BTC would touch one million dollars before the end of 2020. The new year is less than 10 days away and BTC has a long way to go in order for McAfee to win his notorious wager. At the time of publication, the price per BTC at $7,400 per coin is 95.47% below the $1 million mark. The bet is well known throughout the cryptosphere because McAfee promised to indulge in an interesting endeavor on television. The 2020 U.S. presidential candidate promised to “eat” his genitals “on national television” if he loses. At the time, McAfee’s bet was lower as his target price was initially $500K per bitcoin. However, he upped the stakes to $1 million and insisted he would still perform the crazy act on TV if he is wrong.

Later in 2019, McAfee discussed his price prediction again when he told the public he was misquoted in regards to the technical terms of his wager. “Dec. 31, 2020, is not an exact date — Let’s all be clear again: I predicted Bitcoin would reach $1,000,000 before the end of 2020. That is not saying it will hit that price on that date,” McAfee explained in February. 2020 is fast approaching and McAfee has been on the run from U.S. authorities and living off the grid. He’s still super busy and launched a crypto trading multi-platform called ‘Magic’ and started a decentralized token exchange with no restrictions. McAfee recently caught up with news.Bitcoin.com during the first week of December and discussed a variety of subjects.

Price Tracking and Countdown Websites Dedicated to McAfee’s Wager

McAfee’s wager has sparked lots of conversations on social media and crypto forums but it’s also invoked a data analysis site called dickline.info. The website shows how far BTC has to go to reach McAfee’s predicted target. Right now the digital asset would have to climb at a rate of 0.484095526 % per day to get to the $1 million mark. The creators of the data website dedicated to McAfee’s wager do not dismiss the fact that it’s quite possible McAfee’s prediction could come to fruition. “Compared to the enormous price changes, half a percent does not sound like much to you — This is the magic of exponential growth,” the website states.

The website also lets users make their own price prediction and there’s a calculator that allows visitors to change parameters. In addition to dickline.info’s statistical information, there’s the countdown website dickening.com. The site is fully dedicated to the McAfee wager and it says there are 375 days left until the last day of 2020. The website also notes that the ‘Halvening’ will take place first and also explains that McAfee could be correct.

“Conversely, if bitcoin is worth one million dollars by that day, most of the world is going to feel like dicks for not listening,” the website states. At this time of year, thought leaders and crypto influencers are prone to make price predictions, but it’s likely most people will forget these forecasts. McAfee’s bet, on the other hand, will be remembered as people are eagerly tracking his prediction.

Do you think McAfee’s prediction could happen or do you think he will be forced to perform his stunt on TV? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Price prediction articles are intended for informational purposes only and should not be considered trading advice. Neither Bitcoin.com nor the author is responsible for any losses or gains, as the ultimate decision to conduct a trade is made by the reader. Always remember that only those in possession of the private keys are in control of the “money.” BTC prices referenced in this article were recorded at 4:05 pm EST on December 22, 2019.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Twitter, Fair Use, Pixabay, dickening.com, and dickline.info.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH, and other coins, on our market charts at markets.Bitcoin.com, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.