DATE:  22.12.2019, 03:15:29
TITLE: Poloniex Restores Unverified Accounts With Unlimited Trading
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/poloniex-restores-unverified-accounts-with-unlimited-trading/

Poloniex Restores Unverified Accounts With Unlimited Trading

In times of mounting pressure on crypto companies to comply with expanding due diligence requirements, Poloniex has taken a step in the opposite direction. The exchange is lifting restrictions that applied to unverified users in response to customer demand. New and current accounts will enjoy access to unlimited trading and deposits.

Also read: P2P Crypto Trading App Allows You to Protect Your Privacy

Access for Email-Only Accounts

Over the next few months, the current accounts of unverified customers will be unfrozen and upgraded to Level 1 accounts, the platform announced in a tweet this week. These users will have access to unlimited spot trading and deposits, while withdrawals will be restricted to a daily maximum of $10,000. Starting now, all new customers can create an account using only an email address and password and begin trading, Poloniex revealed in a blog post on the matter, stating:

We’ve heard your feedback time and time again about wanting to use Poloniex without giving up your identity. We’ve wanted to make this a reality for a while now and are sorry it has taken us longer than we’d like.

The new account tier means that anyone who signs up for the exchange from now on will be able to start trading immediately and already existing accounts of unverified users will be gradually upgraded to Level 1. “We know how frustrating your experience has been recently and we’re dedicated to improving that for you,” Poloniex emphasizes, addressing its long-time clients. “We are striving to provide the highest level of support and security possible for customers and appreciate your patience,” the exchange adds, advising customers to activate two-factor authentication as well.

Start trading in seconds 🚀 We just introduced a new account tier for new customers! All you need is an email address and a strong password and you’ll be trading in no time Sign up now https://t.co/xtiQUcimNE pic.twitter.com/YmtZ2fs1We — Poloniex Exchange (@Poloniex) December 19, 2019

Swimming Against the Tide

Traders with unverified accounts will enjoy some additional benefits. For example, they will be able to participate in competitions, take advantage of staking services and gain access to Trollbox, the platform’s forum for traders. Level 1 users can also buy cryptocurrency with bank cards. The exchange currently supports dozens of digital coins including leading currencies such as bitcoin core (BTC), bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum (ETH), and litecoin (LTC) as well as new cryptos like the Mimblewimble-based grin.

Poloniex’s move comes amid a global trend towards implementing stricter know-your-customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) rules in the crypto space which has been traditionally quite sensitive to privacy infringement. Governments around the world have been introducing more stringent regulations to comply with the crypto standards adopted by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and the provisions of the European Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive (AMLD5).

These developments have forced established platforms in the industry to change their policies requiring clients to provide detailed personal information and pass extensive verification procedures. Poloniex restores access for unverified accounts after its separation from Circle which bought the trading platform in early 2018. The formerly U.S.-based digital asset exchange was reportedly acquired by an Asian investment group and is now operated by the Seychelles-registered company Polo Digital Assets Ltd. On Nov. 1, the platform terminated trading services for customers residing in the United States.

What’s your opinion about Poloniex’s decision to unfreeze unverified accounts? Tell us what you think about the move in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any third party products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.