DATE:  05.11.2019, 21:21:54
TITLE: Yost: Suspended Ohio bitcoin tax-payment program set up improperly
URL:   https://www.cleveland.com/open/2019/11/yost-suspended-ohio-bitcoin-tax-payment-program-set-up-improperly.html

COLUMBUS, Ohio — Former State Treasurer Josh Mandel improperly failed to bid out the payment-processing contract tied to a since-suspended state initiative that allowed Ohio businesses to pay their taxes in bitcoin, according to a new opinion from State Attorney General Dave Yost.

Yost’s opinion, issued Tuesday, says OhioCrypto.com met Ohio’s legal definition of a “financial transaction device.” That means the contract to accept and process payments through the site should have gone through a process that includes approval from a state panel of three elected officials, and a request for proposals from at least three financial institutions.

Yost also said existing state laws that allow the treasurer’s office to accept electronic payments don’t extend to OhioCrypto.com, which Yost said performed what amounted to a type of currency exchange.

“The Treasurer’s use of a payment processor to convert cryptocurrency into dollars for the payment of taxes is not authorized, expressly or impliedly, by statutes allowing the receipt of electronic payments,” the opinion reads.

(Scroll down to read Yost’s opinion, or click here for a PDF.)

The state Board of Deposit — made up of Yost, State Auditor Keith Faber and State Treasurer Robert Sprague — last month voted to suspend OhioCrypto.com immediately pending a legal review by Yost.

Sprague raised questions about the legal process behind the program, which he said he reviewed sometime after replacing Mandel in January.

Yost’s opinion opens the door for the Board of Deposit to vote to renew the program at some point in the future. The next meeting for the Board of Deposit has not yet been scheduled. But Yost has questioned the merits of the program. And Sprague, while praising the blockchain technology that underpins bitcoin, has pointed out the state accepted fewer than 10 bitcoin payments while the program was still running.

“I thank Attorney General Yost and his staff for their diligent work on this matter,” Sprague said in a statement. “As we promised, any discussion about the future of OhioCrypto.com will occur in an open and transparent setting with the State Board of Deposit.”

Mandel launched OhioCrypto.com to much fanfare last November, shortly before he left office due to term limits. A public-records request from cleveland.com for emails among Mandel and his top staff found no evidence that his administration discussed bidding out the project.

But it did find a PR consultant Mandel hired to promote the program to national financial media appeared to conclude the publicity tour may have positioned Mandel for a possible job after he left office.

An agenda for a December meeting, sent by an official with Caliber Corporate Advisors, between Mandel’s staff and Caliber representatives, recaps the media blitz that surrounded the launch of OhioCrypto.com. Under the heading “positioning,” a bullet point reads: “Post-office plans for Josh in fintech or regional tech development.”

Mandel has kept a low profile since leaving office, and didn’t respond to a message seeking comment for this story.

OhioCrypto.com worked by charging users a 1% commission, compared to the 2.5% fee the state treasurer’s office charges for credit card payments. The site’s vendor, Bitpay, pocketed the commission and assumed the risks of any currency risk in bitcoin, the virtual currency whose value can fluctuate rapidly.