DATE:  25.02.2020, 00:01:00
TITLE: Crypto currency goes showbiz: Bitcoin makes guest appearance on The Simpsons
URL:   https://www.express.co.uk/finance/city/1247170/Crypto-currency-showbiz-Bitcoin-guest-The-Simpsons

The Simpsons visit The Empire State Building to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the show

The skit even teases a tantalising twist in the form of a subliminal message which appears to boast that the show’s creators know the identity of the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto – the enigmatic inventor of bitcoin. Fans of The Simpsons and cryptocurrency enthusiasts have been sent wild with anticipation over the appearance of a singing ledger book explaining how crypto will be the future of money. The excitement stems largely from the script-writers’ remarkable track record in making uncanny predictions.

The crooning accounts book tells viewers: “Each day I’m closer to being the cash of the future, not in your wallet – I’m in your computer!” A clandestine message then briefly pops up on the screen which, intriguingly, reads: “Using the word ‘cryptocurrency’ repeatedly while defining cryptocurrency makes it seem like we have a novice’s understanding of cryptocurrency. “Well, that is a total pile of cryptocurrency. In this system, rules are defined for the creation of additional units of cryptocurrency. They can be generated by fiat like traditional currency or just thrown around randomly or all given to LeBron.”

It adds: “But for some reason, these crypto guys are really into computers. So we have big buildings full of energy-gobbling, air-conditioned computers solving useless math problems. But now we can’t have straws?!” Pausing the scene, viewers would be able to digest the whole message where the bombshell last line has caused a stir throughout the cryptocurrency community. “Also, we know who Satoshi is, but we’re not telling,” it declares. While many within the industry have claimed to know – or even be – Satoshi Nakamoto, very few are taken seriously. However, given The Simpsons’ previous form for weirdly accurate clairvoyance, this sudden foray into digital finance is being given the nod of approval.

Lisa Simpson 'saw' a mystery building in the London skyline that looked similar to The Shard