DATE:  25.02.2020, 05:00:00
TITLE: Lightning Solves Bitcoin’s Speed Problem, but Watch Out for Fraudsters
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/lightning-solves-bitcoin-speed-problem-050000405.html

J.P. Koning, a CoinDesk columnist, worked as an equity researcher at a Canadian brokerage firm and a financial writer at a large Canadian bank. He runs the popular Moneyness blog.

I don’t know about you, but the thing that got me interested in bitcoin (BTC) was its potential to become a popular way to make payments and remittances. Over the years we’ve been constantly disappointed on this front. Bitcoin payments just never caught on with the masses. Meanwhile, usage of fiat-based person-to-person payment tools like Venmo, Square Cash, Zelle and the U.K.’s Faster Payments has exploded.

Bitcoin’s new lightning layer has rekindled the dream of bitcoin-as-generally-accepted medium of exchange. But lightning is prickly to use. Which is why Zap’s recent announcement of Strike, a new lightning application, caught my interest. Strike aims to popularize bitcoin payments by making lightning more user-friendly.

Related: Securities Law Helped Build Modern Capitalism. Crypto Should Embrace It

The idea behind Strike is to create a fiat-based payments app, say like Venmo, except under the hood the payment is conducted in bitcoin. A hybrid fiat-bitcoin payments app is a neat idea. But marrying fiat with bitcoin will involve challenges, too.

A bitcoin payment is special. The bitcoin network is open to everyone, or censorship resistant. It allows for pseudonymous usage. And it provides what Satoshi Nakamoto described as non-reversible digital transfers; like cash, once the stuff is spent, the economic relationship between payer and payee is severed.

Without even knowing it, you’ve paid your neighbor with bitcoin.

Pseudonymity, non-reversibility and openness will cause hassles that regular payments platforms like Square Cash or Venmo needn’t worry about. It remains to be seen whether hybrid fiat-bitcoin platforms like Strike will be able to marry the two systems in a form that still attracts a mainstream user base.

Related: Crypto Exchanges Need Common Messaging to Comply With Travel Rule

Let’s back up a bit. How does lightning resuscitate the dream of mainstream bitcoin payments? Writing a transaction to bitcoin’s core blockchain takes time. It has to be broadcast to the network and confirmed by miners. On top of that, a processing fee must be paid. This fee can get particularly costly when everyone wants to use the bitcoin network at the same time.

These delays and fees put off mainstream users. By routing around the blockchain, lightning can help regular people be more comfortable making bitcoin payments.

Roller-coaster problem

Unfortunately, lightning doesn’t solve bitcoin’s roller-coaster problem. After experiencing bitcoin’s crazy price rises and dips, a new user will never want to hold bitcoin again. Or they will be so excited by the ride that they treat it as a betting game. Either way, they won’t use it for payments.

Strike, founded by a smart and affable Jack Mallers, tries to solve the roller-coaster problem by letting people load funds onto an app, much like they do with Venmo. But when they make a payment, unbeknown to them, Strike (which is still in beta) will route the payment to the recipient via lightning.

Say you’d like to buy an antique vase for $100 at your neighbor’s garage sale. You don’t have any cash on hand. But you do have your credit card. Needless to say, your neighbor doesn’t have a card terminal set up. But she does have a lightning channel open. Strike allows the two of you to connect. The $100 flows from your bank account to Strike’s bank account, upon which Strike sends 0.01 bitcoins to your neighbor via lightning.

That’s it. Without even knowing it, you’ve paid your neighbor with bitcoin. No volatility. And no need to learn how to use a strange new payments network. The entire experience simply piggybacks off of your existing knowledge of how to use a debit card.

As for your neighbor, with just a lightning address, she can immediately accept non-reversible payments from debit card holders all over the world. That’s neat.

But unless your neighbor has the technical chops, setting up lightning won’t be easy, certainly not as easy as accepting fiat-based payments via Zelle or Venmo. Which means that hybrid fiat-bitcoin payments systems will probably have to reach nooks and crannies that are as-yet unserved by the Zelles and Venmos of the world.

Story continues