DATE:  25.02.2020, 07:07:44
TITLE: Who Is Bitcoin Founder Satoshi Nakamoto? Binance CEO Calls Craig Wright 'A Fraud'
URL:   https://www.ibtimes.com/who-bitcoin-founder-satoshi-nakamoto-binance-ceo-calls-craig-wright-fraud-2928352

KEY POINTS Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao calls Craig Wright a fraud

CZ delisted BSV, the Bitcoin Cash hard fork led by Craig Wright, last year because of the same reason that he found out about FCoin

Wright has repeatedly failed to show substantial proof to back up his claim of being Satoshi Nakamoto

Bitcoin wouldn't be Bitcoin without Satoshi, and that's not referring to the smallest unit of the leading crypto comprising it -- but it's "the" Satoshi or the person or people behind the pseudonym. Satoshi Nakamoto's real identity remains a puzzle to this day, and perhaps even after the last BTC is mined in the year 2140.

Some possible identities include Dorian Nakamoto, the Japanese American physicist whose picture has been associated with Bitcoin thanks to an article on Newsweek's March 2014 issue but aggressively denied any links to being Bitcoin's creator. Nick Szabo, the computer scientist who introduced smart contracts in 1994, was another candidate but also denied being the publisher of Bitcoin's white paper.

Then there is Craig Wright, the Australian computer scientist who boldly claims to be the man behind the crypto that has a market cap today of over $175 billion. Over the years, Wright has gained a significant following of people convinced that he and Satoshi are one.

But Wright can't back up his claim. Wright was even asked to transfer 50% of the first BTCs to ever been mined to the late Dave Kleiman's estate as part of court proceedings. Since the first few blocks of the chain believed to be mined by Satoshi Nakamoto himself, Wright moving some of them would prove that he might be the crypto's creator.

Still, Wright has failed to show substantial proof, which caused many to believe that he is a fraud. The CEO of the world's leading crypto exchange Binance, Changpeng Zhao, is one of the prominent ones in the crypto space to call out Wright and recommends investors not to buy Bitcoin SV (BSV). BSV is a Bitcoin Cash (BCH) hard fork in 2018 that was led by Wright.

Zhao tweeted, "CSW is a fraud. Investing in a fraud never ends well. See below. Time will tell."

Zhao also delisted BSV in his exchange back in April 2019, which upset BSV fans, including head of CoinGeek Calvin Ayre, who called Binance illegal last year. Also, in Zhao's tweet, he recalled how he spotted FCoin's pyramid scheme in 2018 after its founder said his plan is better than Bitcoin.



Photo: REUTERS/David McNew