DATE:  04.01.2020, 08:06:39
TITLE: Grassroots Bitcoin Cash House Movement Expands to Ghana
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/grassroots-bitcoin-cash-house-movement-expands-to-ghana/

Grassroots Bitcoin Cash House Movement Expands to Ghana

With one Bitcoin Cash House now established in Venezuela, the grassroots movement is independently spreading to other locations. Read.cash user ‘Koush’ has announced that the new BCH House Ghana has secured and paid for its location and will launch sometime this month. The independent movement to establish informational centers for those interested in peer-to-peer electronic cash is unique in its decentralized nature, and groups in other areas are now expressing interest in starting their own crypto hubs.

Also Read: Bitcoin Cash House African Expansion to Feature in Toronto Meetup

From Venezuela to Ghana

In November 2019 news.Bitcoin.com reported on the successful launch of an informational and practical assistance resource known as Bitcoin Cash House in Venezuela. The project, which is the brainchild of Roberto Garcia, exists to help people learn about crypto and connect them with opportunities and resources in the space. This is especially key in struggling regions affected by political unrest, embattled economies and poverty.

The project seems to be succeeding in connecting residents of the nation with crypto, and spreading word of the various utilities of peer-to-peer, permissionless cash.

Yesterday I finished the Cryptocurrency Course in Barquisimeto, Congratulations to the participants, who are now part of the Bitcoin Cash House collaborators in Venezuela. pic.twitter.com/hfBsc4wrbx — Bitcoin Cash House (@BchBarquisimeto) December 8, 2019

In fact, the movement in Venezuela toward a better understanding of BCH is even evidenced by new signs on the street. While the statist economy may be in shambles, individuals in the country have a tool in crypto to help preserve financial sovereignty, but this can be difficult at times; largely due to lack of information, crypto-savvy social networks and resources. This utility is equally sought after in other parts of the world, evidenced by the recent announcement that a separately operated BCH House will now be opening in the African nation of Ghana.

And we had an awesome and refreshing #meetup & pep talk hosted by team lead @mustapha1957 on #BitcoinCash and then introduced the #BCHHouse initiative to our amazing attendees! We shall operationalize the first hub in January, 2020. #bchghana @mattaaron @BCHmeetups pic.twitter.com/7vo3vfYd2h — BitcoinCash House, Ghana (@bchghana) December 28, 2019

Decentralized Crypto Hubs

Kousha, a BCH ecosystem grower with a focus on developing nations, and ambassador at Bitcoin Cash House Ghana, writes in his recent announcement article:

First and foremost the House is intended to provide education and tutorship for merchants and individual users alike. On the base level we offer the same as casaBCH in Venezuela.

Services BCH House Ghana is set to provide include educational resources on sending and receiving BCH, advantages of crypto over fiat, protection against volatility and safe storage of assets. Like BCH House Venezuela, the hub in Ghana will help individuals learn “how to find work and get paid in cryptocurrency,” as well as “ways for developers and future developers to get involved with Bitcoin Cash.”

The announcement further notes that “We are also open to any modular business idea or project, that we can provide next to the basic functions of the BCH House.” This might include “Developing tools in direct communication with local merchants to implement non-custodial financial services,” the post details.

Kousha, who is located in Heidelberg, Germany, is clear in pointing out the independent, and decentralized nature of the ‘Cash House’ movement:

As far as I can tell, there are more BCH Houses planned, while all of them are organized by individuals in an atomized fashion.

According to Kousha, “Just as BCH itself, organizing such a house is pretty permissionless,” and “I myself am in contact with crypto enthusiasts from Uganda, Kenya and Nigeria, who are all eager and interested to have the BCH House project expand to their region,” he notes.

Moving Forward

Head of Students for Liberty Ghana, team leader and “man on the ground” at the Ghanaian Bitcoin Cash House is Mohammed Mustapha Yakubum, a self-described “Youth Advocate, Libertarian, Entrepreneur, Events Organizer, Digital Marketer & Blockchain Enthusiast.”

With Yakubum coordinating and working on a voluntarily basis with his team and Kousha, the group is looking to bring more economic freedom to the area while evolving the house into a self-sufficient operation. “While we got the basis for the office covered thanks to a donation from Bitcoin.com, we surely will need more funds soon, since we already have found workers, who we want to reimburse for their work in the future,” Kousha notes. “Once we have built some of the tools and services we intend to provide, we want the house to be self-sufficient and reimburse its workers on the spot.”

What are your thoughts on the upcoming launch of Bitcoin Cash House Ghana? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image credits: Shutterstock, fair use.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The Local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.