DATE:  04.01.2020, 19:00:15
TITLE: Technical Analysis and Market Entry: ETH/USD Forms Another Bearish Flag with a Breakout Nearing
URL:   https://hacked.com/technical-analysis-and-market-entry-eth-usd-forms-another-bearish-flag-with-a-breakout-nearing/

ETH/USD is vulnerable to another wave of downside pressure, having formed a bearish flag pattern.

The Etheruem block time has fallen by 25% according to recent statistics, from 17 seconds to 12.69 seconds.

ETH/USD: Recent Price Behaviour

ETH/USD price action does remain firmly within the control of the market bears; however, it has been given some time to consolidate further. It comes following the steep downside trend that Ethereum has been stuck within, which has very much been the case since June. Since this firm direction to the south, ETH/USD has dropped some 68%. It is now trading down at the lowest levels seen since February 2019.

These periods of consolidation, like what is being seen at present, have on several occasions proven to be dangerous. The market bears tend to capitalize during such times, as bearish technical structures form. These are seen as pennants or flag patterns, indicating further downside pressure to come. Since July, there have been four occasions where ETH/USD has trended sideways, ahead of price dumping. At the time of writing, recent price action has again formed a bearish flag, which is subject to another breakout lower.

Ethereum Block Times Dropped By 25%

According to recent statistics, the Ethereum block time has now fallen by some 25%. It comes after the launch of Muir Glacier’s hard fork that occurred just a couple of days ago. The block time is now reported to be happening from 17 seconds to 12.69 seconds.

A noteworthy consequence of this change is that the supply of Ethereum could very likely grow by about 25%. In hindsight, the effects of the difficulty bomb delay are already quite noticeable. The number of mined coins after the difficulty bomb surged from 10,000 ETH to 12,000 ETH, with experts expecting the issuance to settle at around 13,500 ETH.

Typically the delay is considered to be a good thing; this will also put the inflation rate at around 5% a year. Furthermore, many expect the inflation rate to increase even further over the summer of 2020 if the hybrid PoS finally sees launch.

Trade Recommendation

Given the earlier described bearish flag pattern, ETH/USD shorts remain attractive. An entry would be sought around the current market price. Downside targets seen at; $115, $100 and then $85. Stops to be placed just above the flag at $140.

Disclaimer: The author owns Bitcoin, Ethereum and other cryptocurrencies. He holds investment positions in the coins, but does not engage in short-term or day-trading.

Featured image courtesy of Shutterstock.