DATE:  08.08.2019, 09:30:31
TITLE: PR: Bitkan and Bitcoin.com Announce Strategic Partnership
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-bitkan-and-bitcoin-com-announce-strategic-partnership/

G20 Considers 10 Rules for Regulation of Stablecoins Like Facebook Libra The G20 is setting rules to regulate stablecoins such as Facebook's Libra cryptocurrency. Responding to a call by the G20, the Financial Stability Board (FSB) has provided 10 "high-level" recommendations that establish a regulatory framework for stablecoins. Also read: IMF ... read more.

'Black Thursday' Liquidations Sparks $28M Lawsuit Against Maker Foundation The Maker Foundation is being sued in a class-action lawsuit for $28 million over the March 12 event that caused over $2 million in liquidations. The lawsuit alleges that the team behind the Makerdao project did not explain the extreme ... read more.

Google Pulls 49 Cryptocurrency Wallet Browser Extensions Found Stealing Private Keys Google has removed 49 cryptocurrency wallet browser extensions after a security researcher discovered they were stealing private keys. These Chrome extensions targeted users of crypto wallets, such as Ledger, Trezor, Jaxx, Electrum, Myetherwallet, Metamask, Exodus, and Keepkey. 49 Malicious Chrome ... read more.

Bitcoin Miners Reveal Concerns Over Mining Rig Shipment Delays and Bitcoin Halving The cryptocurrency market rout in mid-March, which saw bitcoin’s price slide significantly in value, has strained bitcoin mining operations by slashing considerable revenue from the block rewards. Moreover, shipping delays from mining manufacturers have caused uncertainty and mining operations don’t ... read more.

Bitcoin.com Exchange Now Supports Reserve's Stablecoin RSV and the Utility Token RSR Bitcoin.com's Exchange continues to grow and during the last few months, the platform has added support for a number of well known tokens. This week, the trading platform has added support for the Reserve stablecoin (RSV) and the project's utility ... read more.

IMF Predicts Worst Global Crisis Since Great Depression, Costing $9 Trillion The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said the world's current economic crisis is the worst downturn since the Great Depression, and no country is spared. The IMF estimates that the cumulative loss to global GDP from the pandemic could be around ... read more.

Investments in Grayscale Bitcoin Trust Hit Record High Amid Economic Crisis Grayscale Investments has announced the strongest quarter in its history. Investments into the company's cryptocurrency products, including the flagship Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), hit a record high in the first quarter. Of the total investment, 88% comes from institutional investors. ... read more.

Bitcoin.com's Market Aggregator Now Features Into the Block Crypto Asset Statistics At Bitcoin.com we take pride in providing the best cryptocurrency resources online so people can learn about the great benefits of bitcoin. One particular service we offer is a cryptocurrency market valuation and price data aggregator called markets.Bitcoin.com. This week ... read more.

Facebook Libra Redesigned: New System and Cryptocurrency to Comply With Regulations Facebook's Libra cryptocurrency project has undergone major changes. A number of key areas have been redesigned, including the payment system, the Libra cryptocurrency, and the addition of new single-currency stablecoins. The changes largely aim to comply with regulatory requirements. Also ... read more.

Seeking Profits: A Number of Large Crypto Exchanges Are Mining and Staking Digital Assets During the last 12 months, large cryptocurrency exchanges have been getting into digital currency staking and creating SHA256 mining operations. Just recently, Binance announced the launch of its mining pool following exchanges like Okex, and Huobi. Alongside this, a great ... read more.

5 Bitcoin Cash Full Node Teams to Raise Funds With the Noncustodial Flipstarter App The creators of the noncustodial funding application, Flipstarter have recently announced there are now five fundraiser campaigns live on the platform for a number of Bitcoin Cash full node projects. The projects full node fundraisers currently hosted on Flipstarter include ... read more.

Microbt Reveals Two Next-Generation Mining Rigs With Speeds Up to 112 Terahash Competition is heating up in the world of bitcoin mining rig manufacturing. Just recently, the Chinese producer Microbt has announced the launch of the M30S++ miner that processes speeds up to 112 terahash per second (TH/s). The news from Microbt ... read more.

The Stimulus Cover Up: Small Businesses Cheated, Corrupt Covid-19 Stats, Crony Benefits Last week thousands of Americans have been reporting that they received their stimulus check, while many people have been having issues with the system. Moreover, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief & Economic Security (CARES) Act has not been able to cover ... read more.

Making Money on Lockdown: 5 Effortless Ways to Earn Cryptocurrencies Online The various government responses to the coronavirus caused a lot of havoc across the global economy and millions of people are now out of work. A number of nation states have not lifted the lockdowns and no one’s really sure ... read more.

Cryptocurrency Markets Moved by Regulatory Actions, Federal Reserve Bank Paper Shows The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas has published a paper showing how cryptocurrency markets are affected by crypto regulatory actions. The research also determines whether the authorities have some scope to make cryptocurrency regulation effective. Influencing Cryptocurrency Markets and Prices ... read more.

Americans Purchase $1,200 Worth of Bitcoin, While 7 Banks Fumble With Stimulus Payments For years now, bitcoiners and cryptocurrency proponents have said the antiquated banking system will not continue to survive for very long and the financial system is showing massive cracks these days. The recent stimulus check fiasco is a prime example ... read more.

CFTC Approves New Cryptocurrency Derivatives Platform — Bitnomial to Offer Regulated Bitcoin Futures The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) has approved a new bitcoin derivatives trading platform. Bitnomial Exchange will list margined and physically delivered bitcoin futures and options. Besides Bitnomial, the CFTC has only approved a handful of other platforms to ... read more.

After Pundits Predicted Bitcoin's Death for 11 Years, Barrels of Crude Oil Trade Below Zero Global markets had a historical day on Monday, as the price of oil dropped below zero and closed the day at -$36 per barrel of crude. The oil crash below zero has never happened in anyone’s lifetime and economists worldwide ... read more.

Federal Reserve Index: The US Is Already in Recession The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago's monthly index has plunged, suggesting that the U.S. has entered a recession. The index is designed to gauge the overall U.S. economic activity and inflationary pressure. It is a weighted average of 85 monthly ... read more.

Bitcoin Halving Searches Surge - Phrase Touches Google Trends All-Time High The notorious bitcoin halving is expected to happen in 20 days either on or around May 12, 2020. The anticipation leading up to the event is at an all-time high, as last week worldwide queries for the phrase “bitcoin halving” ... read more.