DATE:  05.05.2019, 19:10:16
TITLE: Decentralized BCH Exchange and a New Giveaway in the Weekly Update From Bitcoin.com
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/decentralized-bch-exchange-and-a-new-giveaway-in-the-weekly-update-from-bitcoin-com/

Decentralized BCH Exchange and a New Giveaway in the Weekly Update From Bitcoin.com

Decentralized exchange Bisq gets forked for bitcoin cash (BCH) and the r/BTC subreddit reaches 250,000 subscribers. In addition to learning about the latest developments, you can also take part in a new giveaway in this week’s video update from Bitcoin.com’s Youtube channel.

Also Read: Memo Is a Decentralized Social Network Built on Bitcoin Cash

Special Giveaway in Bitcoin.com’s Weekly News Update

This week’s show covers the subreddit which was created to support free discussion of Bitcoin in the face of censorship in other forums, r/BTC, reaching a milestone of over 250,000 subscribers. This follows an interview with a former r/bitcoin moderator explaining how r/bitcoin became filled with censorship and manipulation.

In bitcoin cash development news, the show looks at how the decentralized exchange Bisq was forked to support BCH, the latest advancements with the Cashshuffle protocol which have already mixed millions of dollars worth of the cryptocurrency, and a new open source platform that uses smart contracts to allow users to auction SLP tokens for BCH.

As for the giveaway, Bitcoin.com is handing out tickets to the Malta AI & Blockchain Summit coming up later this month. Three lucky winners will get full access to the expo, workshops and all of the conferences, with the tickets valued at €799 each. Details on how you can enter the giveaway are outlined at the end of the show.

Make sure to subscribe to the Bitcoin.com Youtube channel and leave a comment on the latest video.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.