DATE:  05.05.2019, 11:52:53
TITLE: Pay for Flights on Your Next Business Trip With Bitcoin Cash via Corporate Traveller
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pay-for-flights-on-your-next-business-trip-with-bitcoin-cash-via-corporate-traveller/

Pay for Flights on Your Next Business Trip With Bitcoin Cash via Corporate Traveller

Businesses and startups in the cryptocurrency industry are a growing force around the world and services providers are taking note. U.K.’s Corporate Traveller recently began accepting bitcoin cash payments from companies booking flights for their staff, a much needed service for a global sector with so many international events.

Also Read: Memo Is a Decentralized Social Network Built on Bitcoin Cash

Corporate Traveller Accepts BCH Payments via Bitpay

Looking to pay with bitcoin cash on your next business trip? Corporate Traveller, a U.K. provider of business travel management services, has recently announced it started accepting both BCH and BTC payments from its small and medium enterprises (SME) customers. The company is a division of Flight Centre Travel Group, one of the world’s largest travel companies, and has offices in twenty locations across the United Kingdom. The cryptocurrency payments are made via Bitpay, so they will settle in the company’s bank account in GBP.

“We identified an increasing demand from our clients for the option to pay in bitcoin for business travel bookings made by our travel consultants,” said Andy Hegley, UK General Manager, Corporate Traveller. “The blockchain industry is growing exponentially and we are excited to be able to offer our clients the ability to pay in bitcoin, whilst having the reassurance of our settlement from Bitpay being in pounds sterling. We believe Corporate Traveller is the first business travel management company to offer this payment option to SMEs in the U.K.”

If you are looking to pay with bitcoin cash for your personal travel and not a business trip, possible options include hotel booking service Travala.com and online travel agency Cheapair.com.

What do you think about Corporate Traveller accepting BCH payments? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Satoshi’s Pulse, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.