DATE:  04.02.2020, 19:00:35
TITLE: Blockchair Launches Release Monitor so You Will Never Miss Another Hard Fork or Core Client Update
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/blockchair-release-monitor/

Blockchair Launches Release Monitor so You Will Never Miss Another Hard Fork or Core Client Update

It can be very hard to keep track of all the latest software upgrades in the crypto ecosystem, which is a crucial thing to do for developers of multi-coin projects such as wallets and exchanges. For this purpose, Blockchair​ has created a free ​release monitor​ that helps you follow upcoming hard forks and core client updates for a dozen different crypto networks.

Also Read: Blockchair Feed Reveals Messages Encoded in the BCH, BTC and ETH Blockchains

Blockchair Launches Free Release Monitor

Blockchair is a search and analytics engine for different crypto networks that offers developer tools such as APIs, direct SQL-access, Data Dumps and PDF-receipts. On Monday the Blockchair team launched a free release monitor that allows developers to find all upcoming hard forks and core client updates for a dozen crypto networks in one place.

This new feature is especially designed to be useful for developers of multi-currency blockchain software such as wallets and exchanges. With this tool, they will never miss a hard fork or core client update anymore. As soon as there is a new release of blockchain reference node software, users of the monitor will be among the first to know about it. The release monitor is available on the website, and also via an API and a dedicated Telegram channel.

“The idea is that there are lots of blockchains with constant updates, forks, etc, explained Nikita Zhavoronkov, Lead Developer at Blockchair. “The thing is that once there are more than 2 or 3 blockchains you support, it becomes a mess to get to know about the latest updates. There are some tools that allow you to track multiple Git Hub repositories at once, but this still requires some setup. We had all the updates on our internal kanban board, so we decided to make a small, but extremely useful, tool for this.”

Blockchair has been described as an engine of blockchain explorers on steroids. It covers the crypto networks of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, Cardano, Bitcoin SV, Stellar, Monero, Dash, Dogecoin, Groestlcoin, and Telegram Open Network. Users can get information about a crypto’s price, network difficulty, and transactions per second while also being able to look at networks simultaneously for comparisons. For instance, you can compare the difficulty of one blockchain in contrast to the BCH network difficulty.

What do you think about this new tool from Blockchair? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.