DATE:  04.02.2020, 19:07:52
TITLE: Millions of Investors on TradingView Can Now Buy Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash and Litecoin Through Gemini Partnership
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/02/04/millions-of-investors-on-tradingview-can-now-buy-bitcoin-ethereum-bitcoin-cash-and-litecoin-through-gemini-partnership/

Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss are teaming up with another social network. The financial visualization platform TradingView today announced the integration of crypto exchange Gemini, founded by the Winklevoss twins in 2014.

The partnership gives millions of people on the popular social network a new way to trade and invest cryptocurrencies directly on TradingView.

In order to use the option, users will have to create both a TradingView and a Gemini account.

The New York-based crypto exchange, which integrates Nasdaq’s fraud surveillance technology, is subject to capital reserve requirements, cybersecurity requirements and banking compliance standards established by the New York State Department of Financial Services and the New York Banking Law.

TradingView joins other major platforms, such as Robinhood and eToro, that are tapping into a broad base of traditional investors and traders to introduce multi-billion-dollar digital currencies, such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash and Litecoin.

In addition to powering live orders and tracking real-time data, the platform allows its users to observe other traders and post charts, blogs and technical analysis.

In October of 2017, TradingView reported a total of over three million monthly active users.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/metamorworks