DATE:  04.02.2020, 18:30:42
TITLE: World Markets - Managed Trading Accounts
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/world-markets-managed-trading-accounts/

World Markets - Managed Trading Accounts

Trading in any market can be a difficult thing, especially if you lack technical knowledge. Luckily, there are services like managed investment accounts, where a professional does all the work for you. A managed investment account (or portfolio) can be defined as a set of assets that are given to a certain financial company, a broker or financial advisor, who are tasked with making all the investment decisions about the portfolio for you, and with the ultimate purpose of obtaining the best possible results.

Managed trading accounts are a smart way of making your money work for you and to protect your investment by placing it in the hands of professionals with years of experience and the necessary tools to minimize the risk.

Why Choose A Managed Trading Account?

When it comes to investing, being knowledgeable in the market is the most important thing. Successful investors understand market trends, study the market, its movement, story, related news and any other piece of information that could move the scale one way or the other. Additionally, traders need technical knowledge to analyze charts and understand their movements to maximize profits.

Given the difficulty and the knowledge it takes to enter this market, many financial and brokerage firms offer investment products that do the heavy lifting for their clients. Offering all sorts of managed accounts with low, medium and high risks, this type of portfolio is accessible and affordable for all participants in the market.

One of the most innovative factors in managed accounts is the introduction of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in trading bots. Through a combination of efficient programming, trading bots are built with AI to offer real-time trading that imitates the thinking of a financial analyst who collects and processes data. In this process, the bot learns about the market and all its history, related news, social media, exchange indicators and more. This information helps bots understand the global market trends and adjust buy/sell orders following optimized and updated data. Additionally, AI cannot experience human emotions such as fear or greed or excitement, improving the overall result of trading.

A company leading the way in this specific type of service is Worlds Market, an award-winning firm that offers global investment opportunities. Founded in 2003 as a precious metal dealer, this company has gained a reputation as a leader in the Bullion (Gold/Silver) investment industry and has since expanded its services to provide digital trading services from digital Gold, STOs and now to AI Managed Trading Accounts. With World Markets, both institutional investors such as private banks, funds, and HNW investors; and retail investors, can take advantage of all the services they provide. This regulated company has clients in over 40 countries and has been awarded multiple times, including the best forex trading platform and best AI company.

Their AI bot is powered by Microsoft AI and fully verified by companies like BarclayHedge.

How Can You Open An Account With World Markets?

All you have to do is open a Trading Account, digitally sign the trading agreement, deposit funds to your account and start trading. To learn more about World Markets and their innovative AI Managed Accounts, please visit their website.

Supporting Link

https://worldmarkets.com/AI-PAMM/accounts/registration

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.