DATE:  18.12.2019, 10:30:25
TITLE: A Better Alternative to Banking - Club Swan
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/club-swan-spend-your-crypto-now/

A Better Alternative to Banking - Club Swan

The crypto community has had a rough relationship with traditional financial institutions with limited solutions available. Around the world, both early and recent crypto users have had bank accounts closed, transactions rejected, unnecessary delays in receiving their funds, or worse. To add to this dilemma, the availability of trustworthy and regulated solutions where both your crypto and fiat are safe and spendable has been non-existent… Until Now. A better alternative to banking is now available around the world- it is tested, proven, and it delivers.

Get enrolled here: https://clubswan.com/?rc=JVGOEJ23

Club Swan, an innovative membership program, is delivering the most reliable and secure solution, bridging the Fiat and Crypto worlds, that we have ever seen. With almost $1 Billion ($1,000,000,000.00) in crypto to fiat liquidations and counting, ClubSwan has made crypto a viable transaction medium once again as it provides seamless on and off ramps between the fiat and crypto worlds. This global membership solution is a robust crypto utility providing value to all aspects of its members’ everyday needs. While BCH and other digital currencies are evolving, ClubSwan bridges the liquidity of crypto to the fiat world. With unique lifestyle services, a fully-secure financial services platform and the ability to seamlessly convert Crypto to Fiat, Club Swan is sure to make some waves in the industry.

Club Swan offers several membership tiers based on the individual member’s needs, with each tier focused on elevating every aspect of life.

– Members receive a globally accepted debit card… atms, in-store, and online acceptance. Delivered via DHL within days of membership enrollment

– Easily load, manage or transfer multiple currencies instantly or near instant

– Take advantage of discounted travel through the 24/7 Concierge team- up to 40% off major travel site prices.

– Start transacting almost immediately after membership activation is completed.

It takes only 5 minutes to enroll and complete the KYC process. Once completed, you instantly receive 3 multi-currency wallet fiat accounts (GBP, EUR, USD) and the ability to have up to 8 crypto wallets with private keys (BCH, BTC, ETH, LTC, and more). You can send funds globally via wire transfer or from the crypto wallets you control on this platform. Join with thousands of others and experience the next phase of the crypto evolution. This solution is robust and works globally.

Also, ClubSwan is now offering a 40% commission for all referrals. Now is the time to experience a truly better alternative to banking and elevate your life. Here is a link to ClubSwan.com that you can easily access to explore and enroll in this much-needed global solution.

Enroll now! https://clubswan.com/?rc=JVGOEJ23

About:

Club Swan is a technology-based organization providing lifestyle memberships with a flexible and secure financial services platform. Club Swan has partnered with Nvayo, a UK-based and regulated financial services institution, authorised to hold fiat currency balances, make payments and issue payment cards. Nvayo nor Coinx provide any crypto services. Club Swan offers additional services and support through its customer support and technology platform incorporating digital asset/currency transactions and liquidations.

Contact Email Address

glenniss.richards@aucorp.com

Supporting Link

https://clubswan.com/?rc=JVGOEJ23

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.