DATE:  18.08.2019, 23:15:16
TITLE: Self-Proclaimed Satoshi Nakamoto’s Bitcoin ‘Reveal’ Is an Epic Fail
URL:   https://www.ccn.com/satoshi-nakamoto-bitcoin-reveal-epic-fail/

By CCN Markets: The latest self-proclaimed Satoshi Nakamoto overpromised and underdelivered in Part 1 of his “big reveal” — probably to the surprise of no one in crypto.

In a meandering blog post, the self-proclaimed bitcoin inventor did not reveal his real name, nor did he produce a photo of himself. So we’re still no closer to learning his true identity than we were before the “reveal.”

One tidbit Nakamoto dropped was that his nickname as a child was Shaikho — a Pakistani name.

Self-proclaimed Satoshi: Bitcoin is being hijacked by greed

“Nakamoto” now lives in the U.K. and claims to be the son of a banker who had worked at United Bank Limited, a Pakistani multinational bank.

He claims he was inspired to create bitcoin after becoming disillusioned with the corruption in legacy banking.

Moreover, “Nakamoto” says he has become disillusioned with bitcoin because it’s being used for criminal activity and has been “hijacked by greed.” These sentiments mirror the assertions of Craig Wright — the other self-proclaimed Satoshi.

Nakamoto: Hal Finney was my mentor

Interestingly, Nakamoto claims his “closest ally and mentor” was deceased computer scientist Hal Finney.

As CCN reported, Finney was an early bitcoin contributor who many in the crypto world believe was the real Satoshi Nakamoto.

A longtime cryptographer and cypherpunk, Finney was the first person to ever conduct a bitcoin transaction. Finney also allegedly posted the very first tweet about bitcoin in January 2009.

‘Satoshi Nakamoto’: I created bitcoin to empower the little guy

“Satoshi” claims that the 2008 recession was a major impetus for his creation of bitcoin. Basically, Nakamoto claims that he wanted to democratize financial services so anyone could have access to it.

Nakamoto says he wanted to “empower the poor person, empower the little man, and create something that was accessible as the people’s money.”

His idea was a “people’s bank with no boundaries, no nationalities, and no discrimination.” Nakamoto further contends that the whole point of bitcoin was to circumvent centralized government control and to transcend petty, divisive politics.

Bilal Khalid: I started working on bitcoin in 2006

Nakamoto claims that he and Hal Finney started collaborating on a peer-to-peer electronic cash system from 2006 to 2008. That P2P cash system became what we now know as bitcoin.

Nakamoto also says he used numerology to encrypt many of the decisions he made while developing bitcoin.

At another point in his tedious manifesto, Nakamoto hints that he’s Pakistani. Most amazing of all: Satoshi’s spokesman told CCN that he’s holding 980,000 bitcoin (worth $10 billion). But he claims he lost all his private keys when he turned his laptop over to a computer shop for repairs.

**Update: Here are some details of the dubious Pakistani Satoshi:

Birth name: Bilal Khalid

Legal name (after change): James Bilal Khalid Caan

Date of birth: September 29, 1978

Background: Pakistani national

Location: Resides in UK.

Khalid’s outlandish yarn makes the other self-proclaimed Satoshi Nakamoto — Craig Wright — sound super-credible by comparison.