DATE:  05.02.2019, 10:30:04
TITLE: PR: Coinseed Announces Its SEC Filed Crowdfunding Campaign
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-coinseed-announces-its-sec-filed-crowdfunding-campaign/

PR: Coinseed Announces Its SEC Filed Crowdfunding Campaign

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Coinseed is a platform for spare-change investment and cash back rewards in crypto. Since they launched in Dec 2017, they have acquired nearly 20k users through organic growth and built several new features. As they are now preparing to scale up the business, Coinseed launched its SEC filed crowdfunding campaign and you can join here.

Crypto is still confusing and intimidating to most people as well as its still a very risky sector. Coinseed solves these exact problems in a streamlined way. Users start out by simply linking their credit or debit card to the app then picking their investment portfolio. As users make purchases on those linked cards, the spare change (roundup to the next dollar) will be going into their investment portfolio which can consist of up to 13 different coins on the platform.

Users can also earn free crypto by shopping online or offline using their linked cards. In other words, people receive their cash back rewards in crypto. Coinseed names this feature Crypto Back and you can earn up to 10% on your online purchases and 1% on your offline purchases such as restaurants, coffee shops and bars. This whole experience eases people into crypto and make them learn about crypto by actually doing it as well as earning it.

Coinseed has multiple other features such as simulated trading environment where people can practice their trading skills or weekly trading tournaments which anyone can participate to win $250 each week. Coinseed is currently only available in the US.

Check out its SEC registered campaign and all related information here. If you have any question, please contact them at support@coinseed.co.

Link: https://coinseed.app.link/MBPM2LKeWT

SEC registration: https://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/browse-edgar?company=coinseed&owner=exclude&action=getcompany

Contact Email Address

support@coinseed.co

Supporting Link

https://coinseed.co

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.