DATE:  25.02.2019, 18:30:34
TITLE: PR: LendaBit.com Launches Excellent P2P Service for Unverified Borrowers
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-lendabit-com-launches-excellent-p2p-service-for-unverified-borrowers/

PR: LendaBit.com Launches Excellent P2P Service for Unverified Borrowers

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

LendaBit.com, one of the fastest-growing P2P lending platforms, is pleased to announce the launch of a new special service campaign aimed at further loan liberalization for unverified platform users. From now on, all registered platform users are able to take crypto loans up to 300 USDT on a daily basis, where the borrowing fee accounts for 1% – no verification required!

This new service extension has been made available to get convinced those in doubt of platform’s sustainability performance and growth, thus demonstrating that contemporary P2P lending services are super-fast, transparent and with no hidden fees. In fact, it is one of the company’s core business development strategies targeted at further expansion of crypto lending services and popularization of the Bitcoin legacy.

“The world of the blockchain and crypto industry is a lot bigger and more perspective than the world of fiat or conventional banking sector. Crypto-secured loans allow for a more convenient and transparent way of lending/borrowing, thus establishing such an environment where all participants’ demands are met. LendaBit.com has timely spotted a vacant niche in the ever-growing crypto market and set a goal to make the lending services and loan application process accessible and affordable to all interested parties,” says Deniss Moscenko, CEO at LendaBit.com.

The benefits of P2P lending and borrowing offered by LendaBit.com are obvious and undisputed. Firstly, very low system fees, the best Affiliate program with great rewards and competitive annual interest rates (from 8% to 12%). Secondly, all cryptocurrencies lent on the platform are safely secured by collateral, hence no loan defaults for lenders. Thirdly, all cryptocurrency wallets support multi-signature functionality for ultra-safe and secure cold storage of pledged collateral. Fourthly, LendaBit.com has a friendly and attentive Customer Care Team available 7 days a week, the representatives of which will gladly answer any questions and provide due assistance. Lastly, deployment of AI technologies and next-generation platform architecture make the use of platform services user-friendly and short-cycled.

LendaBit.com was launched in early 2018 and has its headquarters in Hong Kong. Among key seed investors, who significantly contributed to further evolvement of the LendaBit.com services, are top executives of collaborative investment fund BitFury Capital, which facilitates digital transformation and entrepreneurial financial management skills.

LendaBit.com is compliant with all mandatory AML/KYC requirements and offers its online P2P services worldwide, with the exception of several jurisdictions. The platform connects crypto market participants in a blockchain-driven environment and allows borrowers to get fast crypto-secured loans with affordable conditions from lenders, and the latter lend crypto and earn interest. Further, LendaBit.com employs strong cryptographic tools and its own team of IT professionals to ensure the highest level of security and technological innovation.

Press Contact Email Address

partner@lendabit.com

Supporting Link

https://lendabit.com/

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.