DATE:  04.06.2019, 16:50:11
TITLE: Craig Wright Might Be In Possession of 1M Satoshi’s Bitcoins
URL:   https://www.investinblockchain.com/craig-wright-might-be-in-possession-of-1m-satoshis-bitcoins/

Craig Wright Might Be In Possession of 1M Satoshi’s Bitcoins

Craig Wright, known by some as “Faketoshi” for boasting that he is Satoshi Nakamoto, may actually be in possession of Satoshi’s unmoved 1 million Bitcoins, and there’s a reason he hasn’t proved it – he cannot yet access them.

As previously reported by IIB, evidence suggesting a new Satoshi candidate has arisen during the Kleiman v. Wright Lawsuit. Among this evidence are court documents that suggest Wright has ties to Paul Solotshi Calder Le Roux, a criminal mastermind suspected to be Satoshi Nakamoto.

If you’re unfamiliar with this case and the compelling theory pointing Le Roux to being the real Satoshi Nakamoto, be sure to check out our full article on it here.

Satoshi’s Coins are Encrypted

According to Document 1-21 from the Kleiman v. Wright case, Wright claims to be in possession of Dave Kleiman’s TrueCrypt files that contain his stored Bitcoin (which is why Wright is being sued by the Kleiman family).

However, as the theory suggests, the TrueCrypt files Wright is in possession of are not Kleiman’s, but rather are Le Roux’s (who, in this scenario, we are presuming to be Satoshi Nakamoto).

The reason this is being widely speculated is because of the poorly eradicated Document 187 from the Kleiman v. Wright case, which reveals that Wright was involved with the apprehension and incarceration of Le Roux.

Therefore, this unsavory connection between Wright and Le Roux leads to the theory that both Wright and Kleiman managed to get ahold of Le Roux’s encrypted hard drives that contain Satoshi’s 1 million BTC.

Furthermore, adding to the believability of this theory, the hard drives are encrypted with TrueCrypt encryption software – the same software believed to be created by Le Roux, as it’s based on E4M’s code – the encryption software developed by Le Roux.

Moreover, Wright believes it is possible to crack the code of this software and is tirelessly working to do just that. According to Wright, it may be possible to crack the code within 5-10 years. Only then will he be able to gain access to Satoshi’s coins, if it is, in fact, Satoshi’s hard drive that Wright possesses.

Do you think Wright is in possession of Satoshi’s encrypted hard drives hiding his 1 million Bitcoin? Or are the hard drives Kleiman’s, as Wright claims? Let us know what you think in the comment section below.