DATE:  24.03.2019, 14:55:28
TITLE: Bitcoinmap.cash Helps You Find Places to Spend BCH
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoinmap-cash-helps-you-find-places-to-spend-bch/

Bitcoinmap.cash Helps You Find Places to Spend BCH

An application called Bitcoinmap.cash lists locations where decentralized digital currencies such as bitcoin cash can be spent directly. It provides information about hundreds of restaurants, bars, hotels, and stores around the world that accept electronic cash without intermediaries.

Also read: New Crypto Exchange Bitzlato Offers P2P Trading

Promoting Direct Payments With Bitcoin Cash

The Bitcoinmap.cash platform, a community project open to new participants and developers, has a web-based version and a mobile app for Android devices. All the venues displayed on its map accept bitcoin cash (BCH) or dash, while some of the shops also take bitcoin core (BTC). Many of these places – such as the Cara B Cafe-Bar in downtown Barcelona or the La Sirene Soho Restaurant in New York – offer discounts of up to 20 percent on the first BCH payment you make.

The people behind Bitcoinmap.cash believe anyone who is holding cryptocurrency should support the growth of its value by actively promoting and spending it. “The only reason why Bitcoin has any value is because we can use it for payments. If we don’t use it for real world p2p payments it will never reach its potential,” proclaims the app’s Google Play store page.

The platform’s developers, who hail from a group called The Real Bitcoin Club, note their goal is to promote the adoption of cryptocurrencies without the participation of payment processors and government engagement. They suggest using bitcoin cash and dash as their low transaction fees allow everyone to participate, especially in regions such as Africa, South America and Asia. Businesses that want to be added to the map can file a request via email to trbc@bitcoinmap.cash.

Do you find apps such as Bitcoinmap.cash helpful for the adoption of cryptocurrencies? Share your thoughts about the platform in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the mentioned companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Bitcoinmap.cash.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can even lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.