DATE:  04.04.2019, 06:13:00
TITLE: Bitcoin backers call end of ‘crypto winter’
URL:   https://thewest.com.au/business/bitcoin-backers-call-end-of-crypto-winter-ng-b881158625z

After a brutal bear market that has stretched 16 long months, Bitcoin enthusiasts are ready to declare that the dreaded “crypto winter” is finally at an end.

The price of a Bitcoin spiked more than 20 per cent on Tuesday, from about $US5800 ($8150) to more than $US7000, causing a surge of renewed optimism in digital currencies that have been declared dead time and time again.

“I guess we’ve had a very excited two or three days,” said Adrian Przelozny, chief executive of digital currency exchange Independent Reserve in Sydney.

“This was an event that a lot of people thought was coming, no one knew when it was coming, but now it’s happened.”

Bitcoin, Ethereum and other cryptocurrencies like Ripple and NEO enjoyed a huge run-up during 2017, with Bitcoin increasing in value more than twentyfold over the year, leading some fans to spout grandiose visions about the end of “fiat” paper money.

The bubble burst in late December 2017 and early 2018, with Bitcoin losing 80 per cent of its value – going from about $US27,000 in December 2017 to under $US4600 a year later.

But while casual Bitcoin buffs resorted to posting memes to cope with the crash, Mr Przelozny said that engineers and regulators have been working to make the space more secure and friendly to institutional investors.

“While the price has been depressed, the fundamentals of cryptocurrency has never been stronger than it is right now,” he said.

Dr Brent Coker, a cryptocurreny enthusiast and internet consumer psychologist with the University of Melbourne, said there were a number of theories as to why the price recently surged.

“I don’t think anybody really knows,” he said. “It was at a critical point really. It was going to pierce that resistance line” or drop further.

Dr Coker said he did not see this as a “dead cat bounce”, and was ready to declare the bear market over.

“It seems to be very, very bullish at the moment,” he said. “A lot of people are assuming it’s got to get back to $US20,000 before the end of the year.”

Dr Coker said he personally thought that was unlikely this year but would not rule it out, either.

AAP