DATE:  04.04.2019, 09:30:13
TITLE: PR: Singapore Hosts Blockchain Life 2019
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-singapore-hosts-blockchain-life-2019/

Bitcoin's Third Halving: Survey Shows 50% of Miners Expect a Price Increase The block reward halving for BTC is 32 days away and crypto businesses and mining operations are steadily preparing for the event. Today, Bitcoin’s hashrate is hovering just above 100 exahash per second (EH/s) and one year after the 2016 ... read more.

The Bitcoin Fund Completes IPO, Now Trading on Canada's Leading Stock Exchange The Bitcoin Fund, managed by 3iq, has completed an initial public offering and has begun trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX). It has been a long road for 3iq and The Bitcoin Fund since their filing was first rejected. ... read more.

The Vacate Manifesto: How Today's Technology Can Solidify Abolitionist Goals 20 years ago the cypherpunks of the new internet era came up with vast ideas describing privacy, anonymity, and encryption. Some of them brought these ideas to practice. ***The following is a featured manifesto written in 2015 by Jamie Redman ... read more.

Free Market Think Tank FEE Now Accepts Bitcoin Cash Donations The oldest free market think tank in the United States, the Foundation for Economic Education (FEE) has announced the 501(c)3 educational foundation now accepts bitcoin cash (BCH) for donations. The libertarian organization promotes sound economic theory, publishes books and articles ... read more.

JPMorgan, Bank of America, Deutsche Bank Predict Major Recession Big banks are predicting a major recession, the deepest one in the post-war era. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said his bank cannot be immune to the resulting financial stress while Bank of America expects the U.S. economy to "collapse" ... read more.

Spain's Lawmakers Plan to Provide Basic Income to Low-Income Residents Spain is preparing to provide universal basic income (UBI) to low-income individuals due to the wrath of the coronavirus, the country's minister for economic affairs Nadia Calviño recently explained. There’s no set date yet for the UBI program, but Spain’s ... read more.

Crypto Exchanges See Bitcoin Reserves Drop by 70% Since Black Thursday's Market Rout Since the market carnage on March 12 otherwise known as Black Thursday, the exchange Bitmex has seen 36% of the trading platform’s bitcoin reserves withdrawn. A few other well-known crypto exchanges have seen cold wallets drained, while other trading platforms ... read more.

Charges of Fraudulent Pretense: US Court Unseals Onecoin Cofounder's Indictment Manhattan prosecutors from the New York Southern District Court (NYSD) have unsealed indictment charges against Onecoin cofounder Sebastian Greenwood. The documents allege that Greenwood, alongside his accomplices Ruja Ignatova the ‘Crypto Queen’ and her brother Konstantin Ignatov, committed fraud on ... read more.

China's Research Institute Updates Crypto Ranking — Review Affected by Pandemic China's Center for Information and Industry Development has published its latest crypto project rankings as the country continues to battle the coronavirus pandemic. A total of 37 crypto projects were evaluated and ranked overall this month as well as in ... read more.

ECB Expects Worse Recession in Europe Than Global Economy The European Central Bank (ECB) expects the European economy to suffer a more severe recession than the global economy. Countries across the euro area will experience "a deep recession," which entails unprecedented funding needs of more than €1 trillion ($1.1 ... read more.

G20 Considers 10 Rules for Regulation of Stablecoins Like Facebook Libra The G20 is setting rules to regulate stablecoins such as Facebook's Libra cryptocurrency. Responding to a call by the G20, the Financial Stability Board (FSB) has provided 10 "high-level" recommendations that establish a regulatory framework for stablecoins. Also read: IMF ... read more.

'Black Thursday' Liquidations Sparks $28M Lawsuit Against Maker Foundation The Maker Foundation is being sued in a class-action lawsuit for $28 million over the March 12 event that caused over $2 million in liquidations. The lawsuit alleges that the team behind the Makerdao project did not explain the extreme ... read more.

Google Pulls 49 Cryptocurrency Wallet Browser Extensions Found Stealing Private Keys Google has removed 49 cryptocurrency wallet browser extensions after a security researcher discovered they were stealing private keys. These Chrome extensions targeted users of crypto wallets, such as Ledger, Trezor, Jaxx, Electrum, Myetherwallet, Metamask, Exodus, and Keepkey. 49 Malicious Chrome ... read more.

Bitcoin Miners Reveal Concerns Over Mining Rig Shipment Delays and Bitcoin Halving The cryptocurrency market rout in mid-March, which saw bitcoin’s price slide significantly in value, has strained bitcoin mining operations by slashing considerable revenue from the block rewards. Moreover, shipping delays from mining manufacturers have caused uncertainty and mining operations don’t ... read more.

Bitcoin.com Exchange Now Supports Reserve's Stablecoin RSV and the Utility Token RSR Bitcoin.com's Exchange continues to grow and during the last few months, the platform has added support for a number of well known tokens. This week, the trading platform has added support for the Reserve stablecoin (RSV) and the project's utility ... read more.

IMF Predicts Worst Global Crisis Since Great Depression, Costing $9 Trillion The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said the world's current economic crisis is the worst downturn since the Great Depression, and no country is spared. The IMF estimates that the cumulative loss to global GDP from the pandemic could be around ... read more.

Investments in Grayscale Bitcoin Trust Hit Record High Amid Economic Crisis Grayscale Investments has announced the strongest quarter in its history. Investments into the company's cryptocurrency products, including the flagship Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC), hit a record high in the first quarter. Of the total investment, 88% comes from institutional investors. ... read more.

Bitcoin.com's Market Aggregator Now Features Into the Block Crypto Asset Statistics At Bitcoin.com we take pride in providing the best cryptocurrency resources online so people can learn about the great benefits of bitcoin. One particular service we offer is a cryptocurrency market valuation and price data aggregator called markets.Bitcoin.com. This week ... read more.

Facebook Libra Redesigned: New System and Cryptocurrency to Comply With Regulations Facebook's Libra cryptocurrency project has undergone major changes. A number of key areas have been redesigned, including the payment system, the Libra cryptocurrency, and the addition of new single-currency stablecoins. The changes largely aim to comply with regulatory requirements. Also ... read more.

Seeking Profits: A Number of Large Crypto Exchanges Are Mining and Staking Digital Assets During the last 12 months, large cryptocurrency exchanges have been getting into digital currency staking and creating SHA256 mining operations. Just recently, Binance announced the launch of its mining pool following exchanges like Okex, and Huobi. Alongside this, a great ... read more.

5 Bitcoin Cash Full Node Teams to Raise Funds With the Noncustodial Flipstarter App The creators of the noncustodial funding application, Flipstarter have recently announced there are now five fundraiser campaigns live on the platform for a number of Bitcoin Cash full node projects. The projects full node fundraisers currently hosted on Flipstarter include ... read more.

Microbt Reveals Two Next-Generation Mining Rigs With Speeds Up to 112 Terahash Competition is heating up in the world of bitcoin mining rig manufacturing. Just recently, the Chinese producer Microbt has announced the launch of the M30S++ miner that processes speeds up to 112 terahash per second (TH/s). The news from Microbt ... read more.

The Stimulus Cover Up: Small Businesses Cheated, Corrupt Covid-19 Stats, Crony Benefits Last week thousands of Americans have been reporting that they received their stimulus check, while many people have been having issues with the system. Moreover, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief & Economic Security (CARES) Act has not been able to cover ... read more.

Making Money on Lockdown: 5 Effortless Ways to Earn Cryptocurrencies Online The various government responses to the coronavirus caused a lot of havoc across the global economy and millions of people are now out of work. A number of nation states have not lifted the lockdowns and no one’s really sure ... read more.

Join Bityard’s YouTube Recruitment Competition – Win 38888 XRP The new Bitcoin and cryptocurrency contracts exchange Bityard launched in early April 2020. To better spread the word, they are holding a contest for YouTube content creators to showcase their reach and earn some money at the same time. Up ... read more.

Cryptocurrency Markets Moved by Regulatory Actions, Federal Reserve Bank Paper Shows The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas has published a paper showing how cryptocurrency markets are affected by crypto regulatory actions. The research also determines whether the authorities have some scope to make cryptocurrency regulation effective. Influencing Cryptocurrency Markets and Prices ... read more.

Americans Purchase $1,200 Worth of Bitcoin, While 7 Banks Fumble With Stimulus Payments For years now, bitcoiners and cryptocurrency proponents have said the antiquated banking system will not continue to survive for very long and the financial system is showing massive cracks these days. The recent stimulus check fiasco is a prime example ... read more.