DATE:  31.07.2019, 23:25:38
TITLE: Diffusion 2019​
URL:   https://www.coinspeaker.com/diffusion-2019/

15 of the world’s most promising tokenised protocols come together for a combined dev con, “Diffusion” in Berlin Fall ‘19, to build an alternative web.

350 developers will apply to test their skills to hack using 25​m+ lines ​of open source code over a 2 day period for thousands in prizes

Hack teams will be drawn from some of the worlds largest corporations, technical universities, leading dev shops and the crypto scenes best indie github contributors

The first protocols to be publicly announced include: Fetch.AI, Cosmos, IOTA, Chainlink, Enigma, Sovrin, Evernym, Haja Networks, Agoric Systems, Ocean Protocol, FOAM, Alkemi, RightMesh and SEED with more over the coming months

Winners will present to leading investors including event hosts and ‘Europas: blockchain hottest investor 2019’, Outlier Ventures and enterprise partners

The event will take place at The Factory, Berlin over two days on 19-20th October 2019

The crypto scene is often seen as a mass of competing and adversarial tribes. However 15 protocols have joined forces to collaborate and pool developer communities to build a literal stack of technologies that collectively enable a ‘new data economy’, centered around privacy, the decentralisation of insecure cloud architecture and the deconstruction of platform monopolies, called ‘The Convergence Stack’.

The Convergence Stack spans IoT hardware through internet networking, storage, routing, databases, middleware and machine learning leveraging innovations in distributed ledger technology and crypto assets to coordinate decentralised networks of stakeholders to enable a more peer to peer and open web.

The two day event will take place in Berlin on the weekend of the 19-20 October 2019 and will be focused on the practical application of distributed ledger technology, smart contracts and programmable tokens, to create a new data layer, and enable other deep technologies like AI and IoT to combine and converge in order to define the next major web cycle.

Leading decentralised projects from across the crypto scene will formally be present including: IOTA, Cosmos, Chainlink, Fetch.AI, Enigma, Sovrin, Evernym, Haja Networks, Agoric Systems, Ocean Protocol, FOAM, Alkemi, RightMesh and SEED to celebrate the technical progress and talent across their communities.

It will be a hackathon-style event with teams of developers competing in challenges including dapps, network improvements, stack integrations, tooling and documentation to accelerate adoption and network growth. The event will also feature a series of exclusive product launches, live demos, enterprise partnership announcements and Q&As from founders and core dev teams from across The Stack as well as presentations from leading developers, economists and system engineers.

Jamie Burke​, Founder of ​Outlier Ventures and pioneer of ​The Convergence Stack comments:

“This represents a big step for the industry. For the first time we are bringing people to work together to take on the current Web paradigm which works for no one other than Facebook, Amazon, Apple and Google.” “We need a wide range of skills from a cross cryptography, machine learning, smart contract dev, IoT, and crypto economics to make Web 3 a reality. We believe this is the first step in a truly collaborative effort reminiscent of the early Internet to make p2p mainstream.”

Further information about ​Diffusion 2019​ is available at ​https://diffusion.events/. Apply now for one of 350 exclusive free places.

About Outlier Ventures

Outlier Ventures is a venture platform that supports the development and growth of new technologies. To do this we advise and invest in talented teams, and support businesses which create value for an open data economy. Established in 2013, Outlier were Europe’s first venture firm dedicated to blockchain technology. As early investors in the space, we foresaw the coming together of key technologies like AI and IoT with blockchains – which we termed ‘Convergence’ in 2016.

Outlier Ventures have developed an industry-leading investment thesis, based on the convergence of decentralised technologies with other advancing technologies including artificial intelligence, robotics, and the Internet of Things. The convergence of these technologies will support a new open and decentralised data infrastructure. This creates next generation data technology which will drive the evolution of the next internet paradigm “Web 3.0”.

Outlier work with seed and growth stage startups as well as larger businesses who are committed to the vision of an open and decentralised data infrastructure. The team is 30 people strong, with a global presence including London, Toronto, Chicago and Amsterdam. With specialists in token economics, research, legal, marketing, and technology, we bring a powerhouse of support to founders and partners.

Outlier Ventures have invested and partnered with some of the most impressive projects in the decentralised space including, IOTA, Ocean Protocol, Fetch.AI, SEED, Sovrin, Haja Networks and most recently Agoric, as well as a number of further planned ambitious investments. The firm also maintains strategic partnerships with its corporate and academic network.