DATE:  13.04.2020, 05:05:28
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Hot Cross Bunnies Game Changer Slot by Microgaming
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-hot-cross-bunnies-game-changer-slot-by-microgaming/052805

The latest addition to Bitcoin Casino is Hot Cross Bunnies. The slot comes with game changing features like the five reel setup, offers about twenty active lines. It is also capable of paying an estimated 1,000 times the sum staked on the round.

The slot comes with Medium volatility and it has an RTP of 96.12 per cent, so don’t allow the classic graphics deceive. It pays just as well as the new slots. Regarding the features that come with the slot, the developer included the Game Board and the subsequent Game Changer bonus, together with Super Reels.

Take a look at the lowest, and you’ll find the bet value for the present round. When you click on it, a new screen will open, with values from $0.20 – $50. The video slot provides about twenty pay lines, the amount you bet.

When it comes to payouts, it is comparatively normal for a slot machine that has Medium volatility. The maximum payout for a spin, where you are using the max bet of $50, will be about $50,000. That is the same as a jackpot of 1,000 times the sum staked.

Throughout the lifecycle of the game, we know the RTP is pegged at 96.13 per cent, which is considered the industry’s average. It is good enough to entice you to play, if everything else matches your preference or requirements.

The slot does not have a lot too many features. The only feature that really stands out is the Game Changer feature.

In order to activate this feature, you need to spin and land all symbols so they are touching the border with feature icons or high value symbols. On the reels, Royals are allowed on the 2, 3 and 4 reels. If any other icon has a high value (any fruit, Take Prize logo or the Bunny Bell), then you have access to the Game Changer symbol.

The middle of the game area gets changed into a Total Win display. However, the Take Prize logos are changed into new icons, with an X and a number behind it. Next, five super reels will substitute the logo.

It’s a standard theme that comes with a tropical background and the slot has a bunny serving as the main character. Also, the symbols give are bunnies, logos, bells, grapes, melons, cherries oranges, and 4 Royals. It is a game with an old-fashioned design, and it’s something you might not be expecting in 2020.