DATE:  13.04.2020, 13:21:11
TITLE: Cashaa Enables Fiat Gateway for Binance Chain Tokens
URL:   https://www.altcoinbuzz.io/cryptocurrency-news/finance-and-funding/cashaa-enables-fiat-gateway-for-binance-chain-tokens/

UK-based startup neo-bank Cashaa has launched a fiat gateway for BEP2 tokens on Binance Chain. That allows users to sell and buy tokens directly for fiat currencies.

Cashaa has announced an integration that enables its users to buy and sell tokens in US Dollar, Sterling Pound, Euro, and Indian Rupees.

The fiat gateway would connect to standard banking networks for each respective currency. Including Faster Payment Service in the UK, the Single Euro Payment Area network in the EU. As well as India’s National Electronic Funds Transfer and Automated Clearing House payments in the US.

Additionally, Cashaa BEP2 gateway would also enable businesses to use the BEP2 gateway to build other financial products. Such as payment utility, payment gateway for merchants, issue debit, and credit cards to spend their BEP2 tokens, among others.

Notably, the fiat gateways are to go live on April 12 for most payment systems. With the exception of the US dollars, which is expected to begin in May.

Binance ongoing expansion

Binance continues to grow, releasing new and exciting features for its users.

Recently the exchange disclosed the addition of five new countries that can purchase cryptocurrency using Visa debit and credit cards with their national fiat currencies.

Currently, a total of five cryptocurrencies are available for purchase. Namely, Bitcoin (BTC), Ether (ETH), Binance Coin (BNB), XRP, Binance USD (BUSD) and Tether (USDT).

Most notable among many recent achievements was the Binance acquisition of stalwart crypto data site CoinMarketCap. However, CEO, Changpeng Zhao, noted that the site would continue to maintain its independence under the terms of the deal.

The exchange continues to expand, and the CEO has promised more partnerships such as the collaboration with Cashaa. That would help increase its relevance and growth in the crypto space.