DATE:  13.04.2020, 17:06:45
TITLE: EOS Assumes Top Spot in CCID Crypto Rankings, Bitcoin Drops Three Positions
URL:   https://www.coinspeaker.com/eos-top-ccid-crypto-bitcoin-drops/

While EOS, TRON, and Ethereum remained at the top of the latest crypto rankings revealed by China’s Center for Information and Industry Development (CCID), Bitcoin lost 3 positions.

EOS, TRON, and Ethereum remained at the top of the latest crypto rankings, China’s Center for Information and Industry Development (CCID) revealed last Friday, noting that the outcome was undoubtedly affected by the global spread of coronavirus.

This was the 17th edition of the index which ranks the most widely used public blockchains per three different categories—basic technology, applicability, and creativity—whereas overall rating is determined as the sum of scores within each criterion.

“From February to March 2020, due to the impact of the global new crown epidemic, the update of selected public chain projects has slowed down, and the overall index has not changed much,” the CCID noted.

EOS again topped the list when it comes to the technical realization level of a blockchain, scoring as high as 105.6 points, leaving TRON and Ethereium behind.

Bitcoin ranked 14th, dropping three positions since February, while Bitcoin Cash, which had its halving event only days ago, moved up from 34th to 31st place.

Despite topping the overall index, EOS did rather poorly on the applicability scale, left behind by both TRON and Ethereum.

Although the overall basic technology index dropped slightly since the previous edition, the rankings showed that scores of BitShares, Application Chain, Quantum Chain, and Dacoin increased substantially in the observed period.

When it comes to the applicability, Ethereum ranked first, followed by TRON, Nebulas, Xiaoyi, and Dash. The most significant increase was seen in IOST and BitShares, taking the 8th and 13th positions, respectively.

Bitcoin Beats on Innovation by a Large Margin in CCID Crypto Rankings

In terms of creativity, Bitcoin ranked first with a score of 42.4, remarkedly higher than other blockchain projects. EOS and Ethereum trailed with a score of 29.1 and 29, respectively.

Lisk, Dash, Sia, Litecoin, and Monero, all scored above 20 points. Hcash emerged as the worst performer, scoring as little as 1.2 points.

All the analysis and research conducted help to have a better understanding of the current state of crypto and the industry in general.

“The result of this assessment will allow the CCID group to provide better technical consulting services for government agencies, business enterprises, research institutes, and technology developers,” explained the China Software Evaluation Center that took part in the research.

Author: CoinSpeaker Staff Please check out latest news, expert comments and industry insights from Coinspeaker's contributors.