DATE:  13.04.2020, 09:45:34
TITLE: Guarda Wallet Launches Multisignature Functionality for Bitcoin
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/guarda-wallet-launches-multisignature-functionality-for-bitcoin/

Guarda Wallet Launches Multisignature Functionality for Bitcoin

Guarda​ has recently become the first multi-currency crypto wallet to offer support for Multisignature. Multisignature (also known as Multisig) wallets make it possible for two or more users to have access to the funds.

Contrary to the usual single-key addresses, Multisig wallets need several parties to sign the transactions – the signatures are generated with the use of different private keys. Multisignature wallets are useful for those willing to co-manage cryptocurrency funds.This way, several parties can create a shared wallet and manage transactions with mutual consensus.

Besides being a tool for enabling crypto transactions for groups of people, Multisig can also be an extra protection tool for those concerned with password loss or cryptocurrency theft.

Making Multisignature creation possible within a lightweight multi-currency wallet is no easy task – Guarda Wallet team, joined by ​Whales Heaven​, were ready to take this challenge and make Multisig go live. The main reason for enabling Multisig was community feedback that pushed the development.

Guarda is not planning to stop on having Multisig for BTC – the team is already working on getting Ethereum Classic ETC (currency chosen by a community-run poll), Ethereum ETH, Bitcoin Cash and a wide range of other coins on board for Multisignature.

“We are here to offer wallet functionality yet unheard of – this is why expansion and having as many cryptocurrency management features is crucial for Guarda. Joined byWhales Heaven, we are enabling Multisignature – something that multi-currency wallets have not been offering yet. Adding Multisig is absolutely dictated by the community demand and we’re happy to offer our services!” – Paul, CEO Guarda Wallet.

If you want to know more about creating and using a Multisig wallet, you can watch a video tutorial on Guarda Wallet on YouTube or check the news on social networks.

Contact Email Address

pr@guarda.co

Supporting Link

http://guarda.co

‘This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons