DATE:  13.04.2020, 13:00:19
TITLE: New Zealand Police Warn People Against Email Scams Demanding Bitcoin
URL:   https://www.thecoinrepublic.com/2020/04/13/new-zealand-police-warn-people-against-email-scams-demanding-bitcoin/

New Zealand Police caution against email scams threatening people for Bitcoin.

The citizens of New Zealand are facing several email extortions from scammers. Police are warning the public to beware of an email extortion scam after receiving several reports of scammers threatening people.

Police stated that if any person facing this kind of emails should immediately delete it or can contact police on 105.

The citizens of New Zealand are facing several email extortions

Advertisement



from scammers. Police are warning the public to beware of an email extortion scam after receiving several reports of scammers threatening people.

Scammers threatened to pay $1900 bitcoins

As per the report, victims receive emails by the scammers saying their computer has been hacked. Also, they notified the victims that they had leaked the videos through their webcam, where the victims were watching pornographic content.

Adding to the email, they threatened to send the videos to their family and friends unless they are not paid a ransom amount of $1900 in bitcoins.

The scammers are aware of the victim’s passwords and have shown the actual passwords to the victims that the latter have used in the past.

Police stated that if any person facing this kind of emails should immediately delete it or can contact police on 105.

New Zealand’s public is facing a lot of issues about email scams

Generally, the extortion by email is rising significantly. The majority of the scams carry sextortion campaigns where the victims receive emails and threatened to expose their pornographic videos among their closed once unless a ransom cryptocurrency not paid to them.

A few days back, As reported that bitcoin scams have been making New Zealand citizens as their targets during COVID-19 lockdown. One of a significant bitcoin trading firm ‘Profit Bitcoin’ allegedly used the image of New Zealand’s Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern.

Amid the global pandemic of coronavirus, there is an apparent surge for cryptocurrency-related scams. New Zealand is going through a lot of issues about email scams.