DATE:  13.04.2020, 17:33:13
TITLE: The Bitcoin Time Traveler’s Forecast Has Busted – Crypto.IQ
URL:   https://cryptoiq.co/the-bitcoin-time-travelers-forecast-has-busted/

Back in 2013 a self-proclaimed time traveler made a forecast for Bitcoin’s price in the years to come, with the ultimate prediction being that Bitcoin would become the primary global currency, and that Bitcoin’s dominance would cause mass poverty and would lead to a nuclear war.

This prediction was somewhat accurate at the beginning, with the price prediction of Bitcoin hitting $10,000 in 2017 verifying. However, the forecast called for Bitcoin to hit $100,000 in 2019, so now the forecast has busted hard, since it is currently the year 2020 and Bitcoin is still below $10,000.

There are only two possibilities which explain why the Bitcoin time traveler’s forecast has gone severely awry. The most likely possibility is that he is not a time traveler at all, just a really imaginative Bitcoiner with excellent storytelling and writing capabilities.

The other possibility is that he really is a time traveler, but from an alternative timeline, if the theory that there are infinite multiverses is accurate.

In either case, it is very good news that this Bitcoin time traveler is definitely not a time traveler from our timeline, and likely not a time traveler at all, since the Bitcoin nuclear war will never happen now.

To recap, here’s the Bitcoin time traveler’s prediction for the Bitcoin nuclear war: “You might wonder, what is our plan now? It’s clear that the current situation can not be sustained, without ending in a nuclear holocaust. I am part of an underground network, who seek to launch a coordinated attack against the very infrastructure of the Internet itself. We have at our disposal about 20 nuclear submarines, which we will use to cut all underwater cables between different continents. After this has been successfully achieved, we will launch a simultaneous nuclear pulse attack on every densely populated area of the world. We believe that the resulting chaos will allow the world’s population to rise up in revolt, and destroy as many computers out there as possible, until we reach the point where Bitcoin loses any relevance.”

Fortunately, the fact that the Bitcoin time traveler is not real does not preclude Bitcoin from actually hitting $100,000 or $1 million in the future.