DATE:  12.09.2019, 09:22:00
TITLE: The Bitcoin Trader Takes Top Position as the #1 Crypto Trading Platform
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/bitcoin-trader-takes-top-position-092200560.html

A recent survey, which targeted 1,500 global investors and traders, revealed that the Bitcoin Trader, an automated cryptocurrency software, was voted as the leading trading platform for trading Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies accurately and profitably.

LONDON, UK / ACCESSWIRE / September 12 / In order to ensure success when trading online, global investors and traders use a host of tools and services, which have been designed to enhance trading analysis and accuracy, while reducing the risks. A simple search online will reveal the wide choice of available tools including technical indicators, trading signals as well as automated trading software. In a recent survey, which targeted 1,500 global investors and traders, both new and experienced, it was revealed that Bitcoin Trader was voted as the leading Bitcoin and cryptocurrency trading platform.

As an automated trading software, the Bitcoin Trader has been developed with an intuitive algorithm that is capable of scanning and analyzing the online financial markets and finding potentially profitable trading opportunities. In order to increase the analysis accuracy of the Bitcoin Trader algorithm, it takes into account huge amounts of historical data and compares this to the existing market conditions. With the ability to also include technical analysis, the trading signals that the software generates enable its users to trade cryptocurrencies profitably.

In addition to the laser-accuracy of its analytical capabilities, global users of Bitcoin Trader also revealed that the algorithm of the software is able to perform analysis at a rapid speed, resulting in a time leap of 0.01 seconds. What this means is that Bitcoin Trader analyzes the crypto markets ahead of price movements. As a result, its users know in which direction an asset’s price will move, even before it moves. Over 93% of the target group marked the advanced analysis and time leap of the Bitcoin Trader software as the most impressive features, which have also enabled them to earn consistent profits in the cryptocurrency market.

In an interview with one of the investors, a new online trader from London, Paul Camden stated, “I have never traded online before but I have read so many stories about everyday people making so much money trading Bitcoin. I wasn’t one of those lucky ones who invested in Bitcoin when it first came out but thanks to Bitcoin Trader, I am now able to make money trading this digital currency and other assets.” Paul went on to explain, “When I first heard about Bitcoin Trader, I was a little hesitant but once I started using it and I saw that it analyses the markets for me and even opens and closes my trades, I started to understand just how effective it is. The best part is that I have started to also understand the trading signals and how the analysis is done. I highly recommend Bitcoin Trader to anyone who wants to make profits trading Bitcoin.”

We contacted one of the developers at Bitcoin Trader, Steven Lupen, and he explained the technology further, “We understand that market analysis is the core component of successful trading. You need to know what to trade and when. Based on this, we ensured that the algorithm of Bitcoin Trader was able to take into account huge amounts of historical data and to apply it to the existing market conditions. We have also ensured that the market analysis happens quickly and accurately and once the market conditions match the set trading parameters of the software, a trading signal will be released.” Steven went on to say, “We were really excited to hear that we had been recognized as the leading trading app in the crypto space. It makes all our hard work worthwhile and now we are even more driven to make the Bitcoin Trader even better.”

About Bitcoin Trader

Bitcoin Trader is an automated trading software solution, designed specifically for the cryptocurrency markets. Its powerful and intuitive algorithm is able to quickly and accurately scan the financial markets and to find trading opportunities. With the automated functionality of this software, trades can then be opened and closed without any human intervention. The ease of use of the Bitcoin Trader makes it an ideal software system for both new and advanced traders.

Story continues