DATE:  17.05.2019, 13:10:56
TITLE: Haasbot Is an Automated Trading Tool for the Crypto Market
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/haasbot-is-an-automated-trading-tool-for-the-crypto-market/

Haasbot Is an Automated Trading Tool for the Crypto Market

Sudden and significant changes in the cryptocurrency markets are a common occurrence. Under such choppy conditions, you might want to try an automated trading solution such as Haasbot to help minimize the risks and maximize your profit.

Also read: Coincheckup Aggregator Makes It Easier to Analyze the Crypto Market

Haasbot Exploits Arbitrage Opportunities Between Exchanges

Haasbot is one of the more established algorithmic trading software products in the industry. It trades hundreds of cryptocurrencies with no fees or volume restrictions. The bot works with multiple exchanges including leading trading platforms such as Binance, Kraken, Huobi, Coinbase Pro, Bitstamp, and Poloniex. This allows you to take advantage of inter-exchange arbitrage opportunities.

The trading bots developed by Haasonline are highly customizable and developer friendly. They can use a number of technical indicators like RSI, MACD, and Fibonacci. They also come with proprietary safety and insurance features to help you protect your investments. These can be auto-tuned and applied for specific time periods.

The platform offers you the opportunity to configure your dashboard to keep track of your cryptocurrency trading bots. You’re also able to automate your crypto trading strategy and trade digital assets 24 hours a day. The bots can be tried using a historical and real-time backtesting feature to simulate different market conditions.

Haasonline has various subscription plans for its bots. You can subscribe for three months, six months or 12 and choose between Beginner, Simple and Advanced plans. The three-month Beginner subscription will cost you 0.028 BTC at current market rates. It includes 10 concurrent Haasbots and provides access to 11 insurances, 10 safeties and over 20 indicators. You’ll be able to conduct unlimited trades on 22 exchanges.

If you want to stay in touch with crypto markets, you can also use the Bitcoin Markets tool developed by Bitcoin.com which provides you with real-time data about the current prices and valuations of 500 cryptocurrencies. Also, check out our Bitcoin Charts page for charts showing price, capitalization, hashrate, blocksize, and fees for BCH and BTC.

Have you used Haasbot or any other crypto trading bots? Share your experience in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Haasonline.

Enjoy the easiest way to buy Bitcoin online with us. Download your free Bitcoin wallet and head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can buy BCH and BTC securely.