DATE:  28.01.2019, 21:01:39
TITLE: All the Millennials, Bitcoin is Your Calling!
URL:   https://blockpublisher.com/all-the-millennials-bitcoin-is-your-calling/

Put your money where your mouth is put your money where your bitcoin wallet is?

The millennials have been betrayed countless times by this system. This world delved in nihilism; all hope is lost for us millennials. The government, religion, the politics, and the justice have ALL failed them so miserably that they don’t even want to give them a chance anymore.

The baby boomers have left it all to wrecks and after the 2008 crash, the situation pretty much seemed miserable. But when cryptocurrencies came swooping in, the millennials were ready for it.

This 1 percent smart groups of millennials have already got it on with bitcoin. They are trading, buying, selling it all on their smartphones and laptops. Some of them are being extra smart about it and saving it up for heir future as a long-term saving.

One such example being Roshaan Khan, a 20-year old senior at Virginia Commonwealth University. Khan recently invested in some cryptocurrency and is urging his friends to do the same.

“All of my net worth is in cryptocurrencies because I see them as the best way to escalate my ability to be financially secure and pay off my student loans,” Khan said. “I like the idea of decentralization, the fact there are a lot less corruption and political ties. That idea appeals to me … Not having to go through banks. Having financial control over our lives again.”

Another is a musician and knows how to better manage her money at twenty-four than most people in their forties!

Emil Thompson is a musician from Norway.

“It feels better to run my own savings plan by investing and reinvesting in new technology. I still have my regular pension fund and my bills still have to be paid through a bank account, but cryptocurrency investments have become a central part of saving for me.”, says Emil.

Often people stop them and say, it’s a volatile business. The risk factor for them seems to be too high. Aren’t they scared?

To this Emil tells them that she doesn’t get nervous about volatility anymore – we got a brave warrior right here. She is very much used to taking risks and that is what every millennial should be all about – risks!

Khan has seen a good return over his investment as well. The stock market is “boring” and outdated. There should be something new and that can engage everyone. This life has truly turned into a fast-paced madness and to keep up with it everything needs to pick up speed as well.

To all my millennials out there, would you consider spending your money in bitcoin now?