DATE:  28.01.2019, 11:28:10
TITLE: How to Earn Free Bitcoins With Bonus Bitcoin ?
URL:   https://coinpedia.org/earning-site/bonus-bitcoin-review/



Claim free bitcoin or 5000 Satoshi every 15 minutes on Bonus Bitcoin. Click to Tweet

Bonus Bitcoin claims to be a faucet that has been distributing satoshis to happy users since 2015.

Recently, Bonus Bitcoin is getting tons of buzz on the web. Moreover, it is making the rounds on social media as well.

I have collected all the small print of Bonus Bitcoin with complete research. Let’s get started.

What is Bonus Bitcoin?

Bonus Bitcoin is an earning site that gives how to earn Bitcoins with none investment and thus they call themselves a “Bitcoin faucet”. The entire objective of the corporation is that you simply join as a member, and further start earning small amounts of bitcoin without having to try too much in the least.

How Does Bonus Bitcoin Work?

Basically, the Bonus Bitcoin faucet works off advertising. Hence, in order to participate in the program, you need to disable your ad-blockers. The platform is earning money from advertisers who are paying to possess ads displayed on the location.

Further, after disabling your ad-blockers you notice a number of advertisements on the site. So the advertisers are paying for this, then the owners of Bonus Bitcoin are keeping a particular percentage for themselves & finally they’re passing the remainder right down to other members.

The concept is really easy. you can simply check in to the web site & claim for your free Bitcoins every quarter-hour. Currently, the company claims that you will earn up to 5,000 satoshis per claim.

Since you can claim only once every 15 minutes this means that the maximum earning potential from free claims through this site would be around $1.68 per hour without including any bonus.

However, the present bonus scheme pays a daily 5% bonus of the entire of all faucet claims and referral commission earned over the previous 72 hours (3 days) – providing you make a minimum of one faucet claim during the previous day.

Also read Bitfun Review: Play Games and Earn Bitcoins with Bitfun

Register in a Bonus Bitcoin account –

The registration process is quite simple.

Login to the bonus bitcoin website.

Click on register.

Enter the email address and create a new password.

After entering the captcha process, click on register to complete the signup process.

A verification email is going to be sent to the registered email ID.

The account is created after email verification.

Bonus Bitcoin Compensation Plan

Besides earning through free claims every quarter-hour there also are a couple of other ways you’ll earn & some bonuses too…

You can earn up to 5% daily bonus if you made a minimum 1 faucet claim the previous day.

You get 50% of the earnings on referral.

You can increase your income by playing games which includes adverts too

You can collect a number of Satoshi by completing surveys and offers.

According to a customer review, you’re not really getting to see any kind of high income through this site. You will be paid little or no reciprocally for some time.

How do users get a payout?

As of 6th July 2017, ALL payments from Bonus Bitcoin are made instantly and directly into your CoinPot account. This includes faucet claims, referral commission, dice winnings, and survey/offer earnings.

You need to create account Coinpot.co

Create and verify your account on bonus bitcoin and link with Coinpot account.

Log in.

Click on “I’m not a robot”

Solve the captcha.

Click on “Claim now” and therefore the money are going to be credited on your coinpot account.

Is Bonus Bitcoin a scam?

No, it’s not. It’s just another company that distributes the money it receives from advertisers to its users. However, the only catch here is, the payout is less.

Pros and Cons of Bonus Bitcoin

PROS:

The site provides you a free way to earn Bitcoins

The site has a pretty high referral scheme with a 50% commission.

You can withdraw your earnings directly from your CoinPot account

CONS:

you get paid very little in return for your time

Final Verdict

Overall, it is considered as one of the best faucets. Payments are directly sent to the CoinPot micro wallet without delays. The best platform to earn free bitcoins.

FAQ’S



Who uses Bonus Bitcoin?

One who wants to earn free bitcoins and one who wants to advertise his products for crypto enthusiasts.

Is Bonus Bitcoin legit?

Based on what Bonus Bitcoin offers, it looks like this is often a legit bitcoin faucet that provides away free Bitcoins

What is the dice game on bonus bitcoin?

The dice game is a luck-based game. It allows users to multiply their winnings.

Is creating a Coinpot account necessary for Bonus bitcoin?

Yes. The earnings are directly sent to Coinpot account as of 2017. So, it is important to create a Coinpot account.

How does Bonus Bitcoin make money?

The website earns from the advertisements. Users are asked to disable adblocker on their browser.



