DATE:  28.01.2019, 15:01:57
TITLE: What Makes Bitcoin Slots so Popular?
URL:   https://blokt.com/blockchain-gaming/what-makes-bitcoin-slots-so-popular

Introduction

Slots represent the most popular casino game in the ever-growing offer of gaming attractions, both online and brick and mortar, according to statistics. There is something about pushing a button and waiting for the reels to stop spinning and reveal one’s luck. Without further ado, let’s take a look at some of the most notable reasons why BTC slots are so popular among players.

Simplicity

The main reason why so many people enjoy Bitcoin slots is that it takes almost no skill in order to play it. All one has to do is to chip in and push the button, the rest is up to luck. Furthermore, it doesn’t take a lot of time to play a hand, which means that players can enjoy this game while on the run, in a bus, train, or a coffee break.

The versatility of BTC slots design

Although the system is the same everywhere – the reels reveal a combination of symbols which should be arranged in a specific manner so that the player could win a prize – there is an almost infinite amount of various slot games. Some differ in the number of reels, others have a different number of pay lines, the symbols are not the same everywhere, and many Bitcoin slots offer bonus games that promise even larger prizes. Per example, the online casino Fortunejack Bitcoin slots archive includes more than a thousand different games including a variety of 3D slots, Jackpot slots, Video slots, and of course the classic slot game.

The odds of winning are higher with BTC slots

When compared with other online casino games, Bitcoin slots have the highest payout percentage. Nevertheless, the rate of the payout percentage depends on which casino you decide to play in. Average return to player rate is somewhere between 82 and 98 percent of the funds that players wager in total.

No difference between the online and offline game

Holding cards in your hands is what gives a good poker game its charm; however, when it comes to Bitcoin slots, it’s all the same if you push a button on your PC or an actual slot machine. It provides the same casino rush no matter where you decide to take a few spins on the reel. It’s like having a casino near you wherever you may be.

Conclusion

Seamless gameplay, colorful design options, high return rate – these are just the most visible aspects that make Bitcoin slots the most popular online casino game. The deeper levels of satisfaction that players experience during the game are individual, thus creating a profound bond between the player and the game.