DATE:  22.02.2020, 13:18:53
TITLE: Bitcoin Gold (BTG) Price Rise Whale Alert and Downtrends
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/11776/bitcoin-gold-btg-price-rise-whale-alert-and-downtrends/

Bitcoin Gold (BTG) tweeted: “The $BTG Halving is coming in about 60 days. Learn all about this once-every-four-years event and check out our countdown clock!”

Bitcoin Gold acknowledged how NOWNodes were always working in ways to making things easier for new devs. It is possible for developers, whether novice or pro, to begin working with BTG and other blockchains.

Bitcoin Gold (BTG) has to state that whatever be the questions about $BTG, whether about mining, network, or community that they will respond.

The BitUniverse App is an all in one Crypto Portfolio App, which helps track $BTG investment in real-time by collecting balance and profit data from exchanges or wallet.

Bitcoin Gold (BTG) Team

The BTG team is always working, thus making it possible to have a network community support 24/7.

ElectrumG, The full-featured BTG desktop SPV wallet, allows investors to issue invoices with storing coins in cold storage with a multisign option.

Being an open-source, community-driven project, BTG shares codebase and the blockchain history with Bitcoin. However, they bring back the mining power to the people, thereby making GPU available so that anyone can mine.

Bitcoin Gold Team was built by a group of 6 co-founders with more than 20 people from diverse skills and backgrounds. During the summer of 2017, Jack Liao spearheaded the project. With input from Team and Advisors, strategic decisions are made by the Board.

Bitcoin Gold (BTG) Whale Alert

A recent whale alert states that the price of the Bitcoin Gold is manipulated by whales who control half the circulating supply. An independent analyst published these details, and he firmly believes that a single group of people accumulate and control huge Bitcoin Gold position. They are now making use of that supply to control the market.

The anonymous analyst published: “Over 11 million Bitcoins (BTC) haven’t moved in the last year. Considering big wallets’ unwillingness to claim their coins due to fear of private key leak for a minimal return, it can be argued that a number even larger than 11 million BTGs are inactive or lost forever.”

The analyst further explained: “The accumulation was very consistent and systematic over the course of almost a year, it would be almost impossible for it to be a coincidence that multiple entities were using the exact same system to accumulate.”

Sydney Ifergan, the crypto expert, tweeted: “Whales accumulating Bitcoin and further influencing the price is not a new thing. BTG accumulation and price influence are discussed as potential because there was no twitter alert about the transaction.”

It thus goes that the external retail traders influence the price facilitating whales to offload the coins. However, if the price is rising very fast, it is sure posed for a downtrend.

Advertisement