DATE:  01.07.2019, 13:38:26
TITLE: Buying Bitcoin SV made easier, safer with BuyBSV site
URL:   https://calvinayre.com/2019/07/01/bitcoin/buying-bitcoin-sv-made-easier-safer-with-buybsv-site/

BITCOIN

Getting ahold of Bitcoin SV (BSV) using credit cards or via bank transfer is now easier—and safer—thanks to the newly-launched BuyBSV.com platform.

The website, powered by Coinify , allows users to create an account and buy €100 ($113) worth of BSV. Upgrading their account will enable customers to buy as much as €10,000 ($11,356) worth of BSV. Users are required to have a Bitcoin SV wallet , and they can choose from any of these providers: Centbee, ElectrumSV, HandCash, MoneyButton, and RelayX.

While Bitcoin SV is regulation friendly, BuyBSV allows customers to buy immediately without the hassle of personal identification. This is applied to amounts—€100 in this case—that are below the Anti-Money Laundering threshold for Know-Your-Customer legal compliance. All accounts have a minimum €50 order for Visa or Mastercard payments.

There are three account levels: level one, which only requires customers to create an account on BuyBSV.com. Bank transfer limits are unavailable for this account level, but customers will have a €100 limit for their first order, and €300 for all succeeding orders if they’re paying via credit or debit card. Yearly limit is capped at €3,000.

To upgrade to a level two account, users will need to upload an identity document such as passport, national ID or driver’s license. Credit and debit card limits are capped at €100 for the first order, and €800 for the next orders. For payments via bank transfer, the minimum order is €100 and capped at €3,000. No annual limits for both options for level two account holders.

Customers wishing to avail of the level three BuyBSV account must complete at least €10,000 buy or sell orders. Security verification for this account will take 14 days.

Level three account holders have a €3,000 limit for daily orders paid with credit or debit cards, and €10,000 if they’re paying via bank transfer. No annual limits are set for both options.

The BuyBSV service is currently available for customers in Canada, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, and Ireland. Customers in Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Romania, and United Kingdom can buy BSV via the web service. More countries are expected to be added soon.

BuyBSV.com is an example of why exchange delisting attacks are not effective against BSV. Utility tokens, after all, only need on- and off-ramps; they don’t need to be speculated on.

To start using the BuyBSV.com service, visit the website today.

Comments