DATE:  26.11.2019, 17:15:35
TITLE: Travala Partners With Booking.com - 90,000 Crypto Accepting Destinations Added
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/travala-partners-with-booking-com-90000-crypto-accepting-destinations-added/

Travala Partners With Booking.com - 90,000 Crypto Accepting Destinations Added

On Monday, the cryptocurrency-accepting online travel agency and metasearch engine Travala announced a strategic partnership with the firm Booking.com. According to Travala the collaboration adds Booking.com’s accommodation listings to the Travala portal, adding 90,000 destinations to over 230 countries worldwide.

Also read: With Christmas Approaching, Here Are Some Travel Sites Accepting Crypto

Travala Partners With Accommodation Aggregator Booking.com

During the last few years cryptocurrencies have been adopted by lots of companies, and crypto users can now spend their assets on all types of goods and services. The company Travala.com, launched in 2017, is an accommodation listings platform that covers a large selection of bookable places to stay like hotels, luxury resorts, apartments, hostels, and villas. Travala claims to offer prices that can be up to 40% cheaper than other prominent online booking platforms. Moreover, Travala accepts cryptocurrencies like bitcoin cash (BCH) for accommodation payments. Travala also accepts BTC, ETH, DASH, LTC, EOS, XLM, ADA, BNB, XMR, TRX, XRP, and the stablecoin DAI. On November 25, The firm’s CEO Matt Luczynski revealed that Travala has now partnered with the online travel aggregator Booking.com. Luczynski added:

This partnership allows our users to access Booking.com’s accommodation listings, as well as the listings from several other leading travel suppliers, which is a fantastic use case for our own AVA token and another huge step towards mass cryptocurrency adoption.

One of the Largest Crypto-Supporting Online Travel Agencies by Number of Bookable Hotels

Booking.com is an accommodation listing aggregator founded in 1996 and the latest partnership brings an additional 90,000 destinations to over 230 countries worldwide to the Travala platform. Luczynski stressed that customers using Travala.com can pay for accommodations with the firm’s native token AVA plus 20 other popular cryptos. Users who leverage AVA will obtain exclusive discounts and loyalty rewards. Travala’s CEO says that Booking.com has noticed the value of making its properties available to the swelling cryptocurrency markets. “Such a move by Booking.com is a sign that we are close to seeing the industry’s acceptance of cryptocurrencies as a standard form of payment for travel bookings,” Travala’s announcement underlined.

In recent years a variety of firms have introduced cryptocurrency-friendly online travel agencies to the public. In May, U.K.’s Corporate Traveller revealed that it accepts BTC and BCH for small to medium enterprises (SME) customers. Another startup called Cryptocribs provides a peer-to-peer short-term rental system that utilizes digital assets like bitcoin cash and ethereum for payments. With the holidays approaching, news.Bitcoin.com’s Lubomir Tassev described a slew of crypto supporting travel sites like Travala, Cheapair, Bitcoin.Travel, Travelbybit, Destinia, Greitai, and Airtreks. Still, the partnership with Booking.com makes Travala.com “one of the largest online travel agencies in the world by number of bookable hotels.”

“Booking.com’s support for Travala.com illustrates the confidence it shares in this fledgling online travel agency and its commitment to supporting digital technology that helps take the friction out of travel,” Travala’s announcement concluded.

What do you think about Travala’s partnership with Booking.com? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or as a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Travala.com, and blog.travala.com.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.