DATE:  15.12.2019, 10:00:09
TITLE: Bitcoin.com Exchange Lists More Tokens for Trading
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-com-exchange-lists-more-tokens-for-trading/

Bitcoin.com Exchange Lists More Tokens for Trading

Bitcoin.com Exchange was launched in early September 2019 as an easy-to-use platform with world-class security and a powerful trading engine. The venue has rapidly expanded its roster and now offers 27 different digital tokens for users to trade. Two of the latest additions to the exchange are ACD and HEX.

Also Read: Gocrypto SLP Token Starts Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange

ACD Token Added to Trading Platform

Bitcoin.com Exchange recently added to the trading platform the ACD tokens created by a Tokyo-based company of the same initials. Alliance Cargo Direct is a technology company aiming to improve international e-commerce and logistics processes. In particular, they are focused on helping overseas customers to buy authentic Japanese products directly from Japanese suppliers.

In 2017 Alliance Cargo Direct developed the ANA mall app targeted at the Chinese market, which enabled Chinese customers to purchase Japanese goods conveniently and without any language barriers.

As a subsidiary of ANA Holdings, Alliance Cargo Direct leverages ANA’s logistics network to deliver goods to customers quickly and cost-effectively. Alongside their e-commerce solution for Chinese customers, the technology company also offers a multilingual chat-service and a system which allows users to clear customs prior to sending goods. This is meant to enable up to 30% savings in tax expenses.

In 2018 Alliance Cargo Direct announced they would start using blockchain technology and issue their own token to address challenges in the e-commerce market, such as long transaction times and high costs for any merchant wanting to sell Japanese goods to the international market. By implementation of blockchain technology, they will provide customers with more transparency and speed during the payment process when purchasing Japanese goods.

When Alliance Cargo Direct first launched their token, the ACD, it was built on the Ethereum blockchain. However, in March 2019, it was instead integrated into the SLP ecosystem in collaboration with Bitcoin.com. The high transaction speed and low-cost transactions of SLP has made it possible for ACD to be accepted by more than 1,000 stores across Japan.

Just a few weeks later, Alliance Cargo Direct announced their first buy-back program in partnership with Bitcoin.com. During this time, for every dollar that customers spent in ACD or bitcoin cash in any of the affiliate retail stores, a certain percentage of that purchase would be used to buy-back tokens. This initiative is aimed at increasing liquidity as well as adding value to ACD.

On November 26, 2019, Alchemy Global Payment Solutions Limited, an international cryptocurrency payment provider that powers businesses with hybrid cryptocurrency and fiat payment solutions, partnered with ACD to enable its tokens at both online and offline merchant networks of ACD and QFPay in Japan and across Asia. Alchemy will provide their Hybrid Payment Solution to ACD e-commerce servicing platforms and retail merchants, enabling them to accept payments from customers paying with ACD tokens and other popular cryptocurrencies such as BCH, BTC, ETH as well as their digital wallet of choice like Rakuten Pay, Alipay and Wechat Pay. Alchemy’s hybrid crypto and fiat payment system has been deployed at over 2000 merchant sales points in Hong Kong and Singapore since July 2019.

Richard Heart’s HEX Token Now on Bitcoin.com Exchange

HEX is a smart-contract on Ethereum that pays out interest in HEX tokens to any user who is staking their token. It is promoted by crypto influencer Richard Heart who says he has identified several flaws in other blockchains and is aiming to correct those with the launch of the token.

The idea is based on rewarding token holders instead of miners as well as eliminating the need for a centralized party as anyone can simply send their token to the smart contract to earn interest on it in a trustless manner.

“HEX improves crypto by paying people to take possession of their Bitcoin private keys,” Richard Heart tweeted over the weekend. “HEX starves scams of attention and referrers by using the same and better sales tactics they do.”

Staking rewards vary depending on the supply of HEX that stakes. Estimates on the HEX official website show that if only 1% of the existing HEX supply engages in staking, investors could earn up to 369% in interest. In the case 10% of the total supply is staking, the interest would drop to 36.9%.

Unlike other tokens, HEX did not conduct a typical ICO but allows bitcoin holders to claim tokens for free. To claim HEX, anyone with bitcoin in their wallet can use the HEX claim tool to receive HEX for free. The earlier someone claims, the more HEX they can potentially be rewarded. Just keep in mind that, if you are thinking about claiming HEX with your bitcoin holdings and don’t want anyone to possibly be able to know your transaction history, it is always recommended to use privacy tools to obfuscate your transaction history before taking any action that can possibly lead back to you.

Anyone who doesn’t own bitcoin can buy HEX by sending ETH to the HEX smart contract, much like any other ICO. The platform is incentivizing early adopters by rewarding them a higher amount of HEX than people who join later. According to the project’s website every feature in HEX is “designed to increase … price and adoption. It’s a positive Feedback loop.” In summary, the final goal of HEX is to replace all existing banks and payments providers in the future.

Trading for HEX started on Bitcoin.com Exchange December 13, 2019. The platform was launched by Bitcoin.com following a re-branding to represent the vision of an inclusive crypto ecosystem, where anyone can gain economic freedom. The exchange, as an addition to the existing financial services, offers new as well as advanced traders a secure space to trade their cryptocurrencies since September this year. The platform employs institutional-grade encryption, two-factor authentication (2FA) and IP whitelisting to keep user accounts secure at all times. Available digital assets include: ADA, ATOM, BCH, BTC, EOS, ETC, ETH, LTC, ONT, TRX, USDT, WAVES, XLM and XRP.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or as a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

What do you think about Bitcoin.com Exchange’s continued growth? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.