DATE:  25.05.2019, 11:45:47
TITLE: Determine Which Coins Can Bring You Profit With RSI Hunter
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/determine-which-coins-can-bring-you-profit-with-rsi-hunter/

Determine Which Coins Can Bring You Profit With RSI Hunter

Crypto markets, regardless of their bearish or bullish incline, offer plenty of opportunities to profit from trading. To take advantage of them, you need access to reliable market data and useful indicators. RSI Hunter is a platform that can help you to identify coins that have potential for growth based on their current market positions.

Also read: 3commas Helps You Balance Your Crypto Portfolio

Website Shows Oversold and Overbought Cryptos

The RSI Hunter website lists hundreds of cryptocurrencies and tokens classifying them as oversold, neutral or overbought. Its analysis is based on data pulled from leading digital asset exchanges like Binance, Okex, Bittrex, and others. It also uses several base currencies such as BTC, BNB and USDT to produce comparable results.

Besides choosing a trading platform and a base currency, you can set different timeframes as well – from one minute to one week. RSI Hunter will then offer you examples in all three mentioned categories. The price of each crypto is shown both in U.S. dollars and the respective base currency, along with weekly and monthly highs and lows. Prices and relative strength indexes are updated every minute.

The tables contain a number of relevant indicators including moving average, standard deviation and average volume for various time periods. RSI Hunter supplies you with charts as well, which show the 14-day percentage change in the prices of the coins and tokens. A pivot point is estimated for each cryptocurrency.

To stay in touch with major crypto markets at all times, you can also use Bitcoin Markets. The tool has been developed by Bitcoin.com to provide you with real-time data about the prices and market valuations of hundreds of coins. You can view charts showing changes in price, capitalization, hashrate, and fees for both BCH and BTC using the Bitcoin Charts page.

What other sources showing oversold and overbought crypto assets do you know? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, RSI Hunter.

Enjoy the easiest way to buy Bitcoin online with us. Download your free Bitcoin wallet and head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can buy BCH and BTC securely.