DATE:  06.04.2020, 05:16:49
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Arabian Spins Slot Machine by Booming Games
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-arabian-spins-slot-machine-by-booming-games/164905

In general, the name of the slot suggests a link to the Middle East and it has been added to Bitcoin Casino Io. What we are seeing from this slot is the same storyline from Aladdin which you can find with new slot machines on the internet.

Some of the major differences in this new release from Booming Games is the three reel layout that was used. This isn’t very common with an Arabic styled game.

Arabian Spins was designed to come with low volatility and it delivers about seven times wild multipliers, two way pays and free spins most of the time. On the other hand, the game seems to come with a reward of about to 350 times the sum staked for each spin.

When it comes to RTP, the game is fixed at 96.55 percent, especially as the slot is a three reel game, with ten active lines.

If you have a line bet of about $0.01 to $50, the total amount bet can in the region of 10 cents and $500 for each spin.

This game is not one that guarantees massive rewards even if you get the most out of it. With regular combinations you can get a payout of about 2.5 times the sum staked which has a potential of about 17.5 times if the 7 times wild multipliers apply in that round.

Remember the 2-way pay gotten from the free spins, on the ten lines, and it looks like the prospect of the slot can pay about 350 times the sum staked in the course of a free spin, or 175 times for a paid one.

The wild symbol is a 7 times Multiplier and it also comes with a multiplier that applies to most wins that it can be a part of. What it needs is to fall on an active line and with the symbols there, it’ll form a combination and help it pay 7 times the regular prize.

Also available are Regular Diamond Wilds which are used as substitutes, and are used to form wins if they land 3 times on the exact active line.

For you to get the free spins feature, you’ll have to get the Magic Lamp on the reels, 3 of them have to be on the same reels. Also, there are ten free spins activated, with a chance of reactivating them too.

This is not just a regular theme for a slot with three reels, but this is one of the reasons it is unique. Based on the well-known story of Aladdin, the Magic Lamp and the Genie. The slot uses top of the line graphics that is very rare for a 3-reel slots. The symbols are the Magic Lamp, seven times Multiplier, Aladdin, Diamond Wild, Sword, Monkey, Hat and Snake.

Arabian Spins from Booming games is an attention-grabbing slot for the casual bettor. It is a 3-reel slot with low volatility and several good features.