DATE:  06.04.2020, 12:23:10
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino Adds MWA Slot By Belatra
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-mwa-slot-by-belatra/231012

This online slot “MWA” can make you feel a participant in a real boxing match, you will see an exciting duel of the strongest athletes and will get a chance to make a pretty penny out of that! This game is an original slot that will be appreciated by players who like to play for stakes. MWA has been created by Belatra Games and it is available at www.Bitcoincasino.io. Belatra Games have been in the business since 1994, giving them plenty of experience to know what players want. The company now provides a welcome diversion for online players and some of the virtual machines have very high potential payouts. Although not what could be called state-of-the-art as far as new video slot releases go, these games seem to be true to the consoles and cabinets that made them so popular and encouraged Belatra Games to enter the online gaming space.

WMA Features

Free Games

In free games you will find a real boxing match – everything is like in real matches! Firstly, choose a fighter – one of those who occurred on the reels. Both opponents will remain in their places and the battle begins. Each “Fist” symbol on the reels is a punch. With this symbol, the opponent gets one point. If a winner has not been determined by the end of 12 free games, the free games will continue and they will be awarded until one of the fighters wins. If your boxer wins, beautiful girls with signs will appear on the screen. But instead of a number of the round you will see a multiplier on the sign, which will increase your win by specified number of times.

Risk Game

Even fighters sometimes want something calmer and with less adrenaline – for example, to play cards. In the online slot “MWA” the player has two options of card doubles – “Card double with a dealer” and “Red-or-Black-or-Suit”. Intuition and luck are your main allies. Guess the highest card or its color and double your win. Can you guess the suit of a closed card? If you can, you will get a win 4 times bigger than the one you already have!

Jackpot “Wheel of Fortune”

“Wheel of Fortune” is a bonus for each player in all BELATRA games. Just accumulate JP points (you will receive them automatically – for every bet made in the main game), and as soon as the indicator is full, you will get two wheels; you can spin each of them and get a guaranteed prize!

#BUYBONUS

An original option that allows you not to wait until a bonus or free games appear in the game. You can start a boxing match at any time – just buy a bonus for a certain number of credits, and you can enjoy the draw immediately!

Verdict

MWA offers colorful graphics, exciting features and plenty of prizes. If boxing themed slots appeal to you and you are ready for a bout, then definitely try this one.