DATE:  06.04.2020, 17:51:53
TITLE: Calvin Ayre explores Bitcoin halving, scalability and problems it solves on Faiaside podcast
URL:   https://coingeek.com/calvin-ayre-explores-bitcoin-halving-scalability-and-problems-it-solves-on-faiaside-podcast/

Tech entrepreneur and CoinGeek founder Calvin Ayre was featured on the very first episode of the Faiaside podcast. Adam Bowcutt from Faiaside caught up with Ayre to get his insight on Bitcoin SV and blockchain technologies.

Ep 1 of FAIASIDE podcast 🔥 https://t.co/RWQqoyPy7Z with your host @AdamBowcutt and special guest @CalvinAyre Billionaire entrepreneur, investor, BSV advocate and wakeboarder… we discuss bitcoinSV Blockchain, distributed public ledger technology & more #BSV #bitcoinSV pic.twitter.com/nYk0SpCRqH — Faiā (@faiacorp) April 3, 2020

We encourage you to check out the Faiaside podcast on Anchor or Spotify, but in the meantime, here are a few of our favorite excerpts from Ayre’s episode.

What initially made you so passionate about BSV?

Calvin Ayre: Well I was using it when I lived down in the Caribbean in a country called Antigua and it’s notoriously hard—in all of the islands—to do banking. So I started using it [Bitcoin] quite early and I was running my business on it and using it quite a lot at something like an enterprise-level, pretty early on. But then, people started monkeying around with it and taking it weird directions [BTC] and it stopped working the way it was.

That was kind of an upsetting moment for me but I was also an early investor in applications on top of BTC at the time, [when BTC had] the original Bitcoin protocol. But of course, that didn’t work out very well either with the way the Core group and Blockstream kept changing the protocol and making it hard and making it so it wouldn’t scale and putting all of the different obstacles in front of it. So when I met Craig in 2015 he explained to me how it should really work and the different ways it can be useful to society at large so since then I’ve just been a really big fan of what we can do with it and I think we’ve been very successful in bringing it back to where it could have been and now the future is wide open and in front of us.

Calvin, what’s the biggest problem in the blockchain technology and distributed public ledger space right now?

Calvin Aye: I think if you asked 100 people you’d probably get 100 different answers, but my personal pet peeve with the space is the massive amount of misinformation that’s intentionally pumped out by all the scammers and all the people with their little scams that are threatened by a technology that actually works and has real utility.

To me, that’s the biggest problem and that’s the one that I wake up every day fighting against because a lot of what I do is working to try to educate the world through my media company and various other things I do to try and educate the world, about the super powers that this technology has and all the things that it can do and the problems that can be solved with this technology it’s just absolutely amazing. But soon, I’m not going to have to do any talking, because there’s applications coming down the pipe like EHR Data out of the United States that’s going to put medical records on the BSV blockchain. And hopefully, that will help solve the opioid crisis and I believe the same technology can be used to deal with the pandemic that we are dealing with right now and they’re working on this right now, this is something that’s coming, something that’s being worked on and it’s going to be within the next 12 months. It’s going to prove all of the things that we’ve been talking about so it won’t be necessary for me to do any talking.

What do you foresee the future of Bitcoin SV to be?

Calvin Ayre: I’ve been saying for months now that I believe the platform wars are over and from my perspective, they were over pretty much the second the hash war was started and we got rid of all the anarchists that all went over to the other branch. Once we got all the anarchists away from the original Bitcoin protocol and there was nobody blocking us, we were free to scale and from my perspective, that’s was it. It was over.

It’s just a matter for the rest of the world to figure out that this has in fact happened, so I think the future of the platform is set in stone already it’s going to end up subsuming pretty much everything that we see around us digitally. It’s going to be layered in with the Metanet and it’s going to layer in on top of the internet. Everything that you do now is going to be done on top of Metanet and it’s going to work similar except you are going to be able to put a value to all data, which is going to change business models that exist and the applications that are built on top of it.

In the full episode…

In its entirety, Bowmann and Ayre explore the Bitcoin halving, Bitcoin’s scalability and the problems it solves, the upcoming CoinGeek New York City event, as well as influential books, memorable mottos, and much more. You can listen to the full podcast on Anchor or Spotify.

New to Bitcoin? Check out CoinGeek’s Bitcoin for Beginners section, the ultimate resource guide to learn more about Bitcoin—as originally envisioned by Satoshi Nakamoto—and blockchain.