DATE:  06.04.2020, 02:34:54
TITLE: How on-chain metrics indicate that Bitcoin has already bottomed out
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/how-on-chain-metrics-indicate-that-bitcoin-has-already-bottomed-out-beincrypto/

[ad_1]



It can rightly be said that the mood has recently changed for all financial markets worldwide. Bitcoin BUY NOW was no exception to this trend, and metrics in the chain can indicate where the markets might go next.

Blockchain data and intelligence provider Glassnode has looked at the charts and some on-chain metrics for Bitcoin to determine what has happened to sentiment since the big price drop earlier last month.

Since the 50% crash four weeks ago, BTC has managed to regain half of it and hit over $ 7,000 in late trading yesterday. Where to go next is the big question in the cryptosphere right now, especially the halving Only 40 days left.

Has Bitcoin Hit The Bottom?

The research company suggested that most on-chain metrics jumped out of zones that historically signaled a market bottom.

On-chain metrics used for evaluation #Bitcoin Market cycles indicate a possible shift in sentiment. In the weeks after $ BTCMost have rebounded from zones or sit in zones that have historically signaled lows and good entry points.https://t.co/tdWxHMdbLz pic.twitter.com/4C8ej9xOSz – glass knot (@glassnode) March 31, 2020

This is shown in the first chart, which shows the recent market trough from November 2019 to early January 2020 in the high $ 6,000 zone. Bitcoin has now returned to this area, which could signal an accumulation phase.

The second graph shows the percentage of UTXOs (unspent transaction expenses) in profit. This also seems to have hit a low of 70% in early March and is now rising again. The percentage of the winning offer reflects the UTXO chart with a recovery as the Bitcoin price has recovered in the past few weeks.

Other indicators become bullish

Graphic No. 4 4 shows the Puell multipleThis is calculated by dividing the daily emission value of bitcoins in USD by the 365-day moving average of this value. It has dropped significantly below the price level, indicating that Bitcoin is overvalued and has returned to an undervalued level. This could mean a shift in sentiment and a return for the bulls.

The MVRV ratio was developed by Murad Mahmudov and David Puell to compare the realized value and the market value by dividing them into each other. This graph shows that the ratio has dropped below zero into the "green zone", indicating that the previous decline was a low and prices are recovering.

The reserve risk measure in the final chart provides a visualization of long-term Bitcoin holders' confidence in the price of the asset at a particular point in time. It also rebounded into a buying zone when BTC prices collapsed and is now on the way up again.

There are many on-chain metrics that can be used to determine market sentiment for Bitcoin, and these six at least all signal that the bottom has been reached and prices are slowly rising again.

Meanwhile, do you need a trading guide? Coronavirus outbreak?

Dailynewsx is here to help! Join our … Telegram trading community to the Market updates, exclusive Trading signals and a FREE trade rate!

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View, and Twitter.