DATE:  07.01.2019, 13:30:25
TITLE: Ledger Unveils Bluetooth-Enabled Hardware Wallet
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/ledger-bluetooth-hardware-wallet/

Ledger Unveils Bluetooth-Enabled Hardware Wallet

Hardware wallet manufacturer Ledger has unveiled its newest cryptocurrency wallet. The Ledger Nano X is Bluetooth-enabled and can hold up to 100 different cryptocurrencies at a time. A mobile app is also being launched for both iOS and Android to pair the device to smartphones.

Also read: Indian Supreme Court Moves Crypto Hearing, Community Calls for Positive Regulations

Newest Ledger Wallet

The Ledger Nano X is Bluetooth enabled. Connect it to your smartphone with Ledger Live Mobile app and safely transact anywhere. All Bluetooth communications are encrypted end-to-end to protect against any security threat.

The Nano X joins Ledger’s two existing consumer hardware wallets: the Nano S and the Ledger Blue. The former currently retails for $59 and the latter $269.99. The company claims in its Monday’s announcement that over 1.5 million Ledger Nano S devices have been sold worldwide. The Nano X is only available in one color at present while the Nano S comes in six colors.

About Ledger Nano X

According to Ledger, up to 100 cryptocurrency apps can be installed on the Nano X at the same time. The device also supports over 1,100 assets with more to be added each month. In comparison, the Nano S can simultaneously run up to 18 cryptocurrency applications with support for only 40 assets in total.

Unlike its predecessor which draws power through a USB cable, the Nano X has a 100mAh built-in battery to power it for wireless use. Several security improvements are listed on Ledger’s website for the latest model, and the company explained that private keys stored on the new device are isolated inside its EAL5+ certified secure storage chip.

With dimensions of 72mm x 18.6mm x 11.75mm, the Nano X is shorter but slightly wider than the Nano S which measures 98mm x 18mm x 9mm. However, at 34g, it is over twice as heavy as the Nano S which weighs 16.2g, Ledger’s website details.

Navigation on the new model is also improved due to its larger, round buttons on the face of the device compared to two small buttons located at the top of the Nano S. Ledger further described that the new device has “Bigger screen for an improved experience.”

In addition to the wallet itself, the Nano X will come with a USB cable, a getting started leaflet and a recovery sheet.

What do you think of the Ledger Nano X? Let us know in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock and Ledger.

Need to calculate your bitcoin holdings? Check our tools section.