DATE:  18.09.2019, 13:10:33
TITLE: Bitfury Opens Direct Sales Of Bitcoin Mining Equipment To SMEs
URL:   https://bitcoinist.com/bitfury-opens-direct-sales-of-bitcoin-mining-equipment-to-smes/

Bitcoin ASIC Miner Bitfury Opens Direct Sales Of Bitcoin Mining Equipment To SMEs

Bitcoin mining rig manufacturer, Bitfury, has published prices on its equipment for the first time. According to an article in Russian-language, RBK-Krypto, the company has opened online hardware sales to small and medium-sized enterprises.

Manic Bitcoin Miners

The equipment now available in Bitfury’s online store, includes the Bitfury Clarke ASIC chips, Bitfury Tardis Mining Rigs, and even its BlockBox AC mobile mining units.

Bitfury Clarke 14nm ASICs cost $2500 plus tax for a minimum lot of 1000 pieces. The chips perform at up to 120 gigahashes per second and operate at an efficiency rate as low as 55 millijoules per gigahash.

The rack-mountable Bitfury Tardis rigs come fully loaded with Bitfury Clarke ASICs and are upgradable when new ASIC technology becomes available. Prices are currently $3300 plus tax for the currently available batch, and $2900 plus tax if you can wait until mid-October for your machine.

Those wanting to splash out on a BlockBox AC will have to dig deep, as the starting price is over half a million dollars without tax. However, for that, you get a mobile plug-and-play mining solution with up to 7.5 petahashes per second. All you need is a suitably affordable power source and internet access… and somewhere to store a 40-foot marine shipping container.

A Shift In Focus?

Bitfury has previously focussed only on sales to larger corporate clients, and prices have been strictly ‘on application’ only. By opening up sales to SMEs (and even potentially individuals), Bitfury is broadening its market reach.

Purchasers will even have access to support in the design and production of their own miners based on Bitfury Clarke ASICs.

This can only lead to an increase in the amount of hashing power on the ground. Hashrate has risen in recent months to an all-time high, leading some to speculate that Bitcoin price will soon follow.

Aside from mining machines, Bitfury is also involved in blockchain infrastructure projects, such as implementing lightning network payments on exchange BTCBIT.

What do you think about Bitfury’s latest business move? Share your thoughts in the comments below.

Images via Shutterstock

P.S: The link to Bitfury’s online store published earlier is an infringing website. Customers who have visited the same, please note that they have done so out of ignorance. The fraudulent link has been replaced with the appropriate one as per details shared by an official Bitfury executive.