DATE:  07.05.2019, 11:40:43
TITLE: Coin 360 Provides Color-Based Crypto Market Data
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/coin-360-provides-color-based-crypto-market-data/

Coin 360 Provides Color-Based Crypto Market Data

Websites dedicated to cryptocurrency data are prone to looking dull and overcrowded with numbers, percentages and charts that may put off newcomers to the space. Platforms such as Coin 360 are more intuitive for users, providing an easy to comprehend visual representation of the current market.

Also read: Celsius Wallet App Offers Interest and Loans for Your Cryptocurrency

Website Tracks Cryptocurrencies by Price Change

Coin 360 arranges digital currencies on an interactive map according to the protocol they are based on. Each tracked crypto is displayed in a separate box with its ticker symbol. The size and color of the boxes, green or red, indicate the market share and the 24-hour price change of the respective cryptocurrencies.

When scrolling over a box, another window pops up with additional information about the coin, including a chart, current price and 24-hour volume. The market data is updated every 10 seconds and you can define your own watchlist choosing between 10 and 50 coins or tokens.

Clicking on the box will take you to the dedicated page of the crypto where more detailed charts for different time periods are available. There’s also a brief description of the digital coin and other information such as the circulating and maximum supply.

Coin 360 provides a similar set of data for cryptocurrency exchanges as well. Their boxes show the daily trading volume with the 24-hour change. The additional window includes the features and services offered by the trading platform, its fees and the number of supported pairs.

For those who prefer the more traditional look of conventional price and market cap trackers, the website has a table with the top 100 digital currencies by capitalization. It is more dynamic than other platforms as you can see real-time price changes blinking in green or red.

Coin 360 shows the latest headlines from the cryptocurrency space at the bottom of its page. There’s also a calendar section informing readers about upcoming major crypto events.

Another reliable source for the prices and valuations of hundreds of cryptocurrencies is the Bitcoin Markets page developed by Bitcoin.com. It allows you to track your favorite coins and compare their indicators in major cryptocurrencies or a number of fiat currencies. Also, check out our Bitcoin Charts page which covers prices, market caps, daily transactions, supply, hashrate, blocksize, inflation rate, and fees for both BCH and BTC.

What other interactive platforms for crypto market data do you know? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Coin 360.

Enjoy the easiest way to buy Bitcoin online with us. Download your free Bitcoin wallet and head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can buy BCH and BTC securely.