DATE:  15.01.2019, 17:26:55
TITLE: Are the Winklevoss Twins the world’s biggest holders of Bitcoin?
URL:   https://cryptonewsreview.com/are-the-winklevoss-twins-the-worlds-biggest-holders-of-bitcoin/

The Winklevoss Twins were recently interviewed on Fortune’s online show “Balancing the Ledger” regarding all things crypto and covering topics such as the Gemini Dollar and the SEC, but the burning questions was: are they the biggest holders of Bitcoin in the world?

In the interview, Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss remain bullish on crypto. The longtime fans of crypto and Bitcoin, have just kicked off a new marketing campaign titled “Revolution Needs Rules,” featuring a full-page New York Times ad and Wall Street billboards – all to promote the twins’ crypto exchange, Gemini, and their newly launched app.

Tyler said “The idea is that companies that build on top of things like Bitcoin should have regulation that’s thoughtful and that doesn’t stifle innovation. People believe in the dream of crypto, they just don’t know how to engage in it without getting burned. We’re here to say Gemini’s a place you can do that.”

That’s why Gemini is adding the same safeguards and consumer protections as other financial institutions, and creating a version of FINRA, the self-regulated body that oversees securities dealers.

The twins were especially keen to talk stablecoins, and their own version, the Gemini Dollar. Cameron said that stablecoins amount to “dollars on the blockchain,” and can be used for paying for other crypto services or for issuing dividends. Additionally, as at least 60% of U.S. $100 bills are held overseas, they argue stablecoins are an easy way to hold US dollars abroad.

Pushing Bitcoin as digital gold, Cameron Winkevoss said “The only thing gold has over bitcoin is a 3000 year head start.”

But the burning question in the interview was confirming the claim that they are the biggest Bitcoin holders in the world – except perhaps for Satoshi whose wallets haven’t been touched for over eight years. Is that true? Yes it seems – although in a true moment of sibling rivalry, Tyler and Cameron each claimed to hold at least slightly more Bitcoin than the other.

Watch the full interview on Fortune here: http://fortune.com/2019/01/13/winklevoss-gemini/