DATE:  06.02.2020, 05:42:03
TITLE: Sony Financial Ventures Joins the Digital Securities Market. Partners With Securitize
URL:   https://thetradable.com/sony-financial-ventures-joins-the-digital-securities-market-partners-with-securitize/

The financial arm of the Japanese firm, Sony Financial Ventures, has decided to join other big financial institutions to be a part of an emerging digital securities market.

Easy Security Trading

Sony Financial Ventures has teamed up with Securitize, a digital securities company that offers a platform for not only compliance, but also a protocol developer for issuance of modern securities. Securitize intends to capitalize on traditional markets be developing digital systems that would allow for easier and faster methods of owning, trading and managing financial securities.

Sony Financial Ventures has backed Securitize with a significant, but an undisclosed sum. The digital securities developer has already seen heavy investments, with MUFG and Santander banks injecting USD 14 million previously. According to Carlos Domingo, the CEO of Securitize, the decision of Sony Financial Ventures to join the platform marks,

“another marquee name to a growing list of companies who are investing in digital securities as the future of global capital markets”

Other institutes that have already started working with Securitize include Nomura holdings, Blockchain Capital, Coinbase Ventures and even Ripple Xpring.

Digital Securities

Securitize is a blockchain platform that aims to modernize the current setup of capital markets by leveraging the efficiencies and economical activities of the decentralized technology. Founded in 2017, the platform delivers trusted solutions for the equity, funds, fixed income and real estate markets. Securitize is a registered entity by the Securities and Exchange Commission of United States of America. It acts as a transfer agent service provider for:

Real time Registrar.

Dividend and Interest Payments.

Tax Reforms and their Reporting.

Redemption.

Voting.

Buybacks.

Lost and Stolen Security Mechanism.

Enforcement of Transfer Restriction.

The platform has currently 11 different digital securities in 5 separate public markets. The Securitize platform works in 4 distinct areas, such as capital formation (assisting entities to raise funds for digital securities), in an advisory capacity, helping in liquidity through accessing secondary markets and facilitating in escrow and custodial features.

Security tokens are the next big thing in the blockchain financial sector. Representing financial securities, they are unique in nature and represent a real world asset, such as shares, stocks and even real estate holdings. The efficiency and speed of blockchain means that these tokens create a whole new paradigm for the legacy securities market, enabling faster and cheaper transfer and secure holding of securities.