DATE:  07.04.2020, 17:03:18
TITLE: Dead physique of a youth discovered within the pond, members of the family feared homicide
URL:   https://ourbitcoinnews.com/dead-body-of-a-youth-found-in-the-pond-family-members-feared-murder/

Listen to the information

Eta In Aliganj space on Tuesday morning, when folks noticed the lifeless physique of a younger man mendacity in a pond, the feeling unfold. The police reached the spot and acquired him out. The household later recognized the physique as Sasanta Dakhpur, a resident of Tejveer. At the identical time, he has additionally feared homicide. Tahrir has been given within the case.

On Tuesday morning, when folks went for defecation on the banks of a pond close to village Moongarhar within the police station space, a lifeless physique was seen floating within the water. Seeing the physique, crowds of individuals gathered and the police have been knowledgeable within the space. When the police arrived and took the physique out, the physique was recognized as Tejveer (45) resident Sasanta Dakhpur.

The deceased's son Gaurav has said that his father was lacking because the evening of April 5. He was searched, however no clue was discovered. Even after this the search was on. The lifeless physique was discovered within the pond of Moongharhar Haar village on Tuesday morning. He is feared to have been murdered. Tahrir has been given within the case. At the identical time, the police has additionally began investigating.

Eta In Aliganj space on Tuesday morning, when folks noticed the lifeless physique of a younger man mendacity in a pond, the feeling unfold. The police reached the spot and acquired him out. The household later recognized the physique as Sasanta Dakhpur, a resident of Tejveer. At the identical time, he has additionally feared homicide. Tahrir has been given within the case. On Tuesday morning, when folks went for defecation on the banks of a pond close to village Moongarhar within the police station space, a lifeless physique was seen floating within the water. Seeing the physique, crowds of individuals gathered and the police have been knowledgeable within the space. When the police arrived and took the physique out, the physique was recognized as Tejveer (45) resident Sasanta Dakhpur.

The deceased's son Gaurav has said that his father was lacking because the evening of April 5. He was searched, however no clue was discovered. Even after this the search was on. The lifeless physique was discovered within the pond of Moongharhar Haar village on Tuesday morning. He is feared to have been murdered. Tahrir has been given within the case. At the identical time, the police has additionally began investigating.