DATE:  07.04.2020, 07:18:25
TITLE: Will Bitcoin Market survive BTC Miner Capitulations?
URL:   https://coinnounce.com/will-bitcoin-market-survive-btc-miner-capitulations/

Miner Capitulations in Bitcoin Market

Analysts claim the occurrence of Miner Capitulations in the Bitcoin market.

Besides, a stagnant market since March 12, this news is not a good indication. Experts claim that the Miners are getting rid of their bitcoins before the prices decline further in the coming weeks.

What are Miner Capitulations, and Why do they seem to cause the Death Drop?

Miner Capitulations are the sale of Bitcoins by miners when they become less profitable. The occurrence of Miner Capitulations is not a good sign as it highlights the steady decline of the Digital Market.

Trader Mansasuma tweeted about these happenings and prompted a nationwide concern. The Digital Marmet was already deaccelerating due to the ongoing COVID-19 Crisis. Bouncing back of the Market was the only hope for survival, but things are at risk now. These miner capitulations are not at all a good sign for the traders.

Bottoming of the Cryptocurrency:

Series of events that indicate the bottoming of Bitcoin

Trader Byzantine General tweeted about the fall in the Bitcoin cash-flow.

He tweeted that the Bitcoin Cash flow has reduced to $7700.

The Market broke through this level last week, creating a headache for the traders.

Traders started fearing about Bankruptcy

So they began selling their shares, and the events of Miner Capitulations occurred.

Can We asses the Bitcoin Market by these events for the short-term?

On the one hand, there are factors like Miner Capitulation and the Halving event that indicate the downfall of the Digital Market, whereas, on the other hand, macroeconomics factors still give people hope. Analyzing all these factors for assessing the short term future of the Bitcoin Market is a challenging task. So, expecting anything specific in the future would not be healthy.

Some Predict that it is different this time for the Market

Although, Miner capitulations have the image of causing the Business downfall. But some predict that it is different in this case.

People reason this by saying that this is just a fear. No such thing will happen in the future. Bitcoin has a history of recovering from its losses. It has probably improved 830 times in the past. And once the Worldwide COVID-19 pandemic is over, the Market will bounce back with a bang.

Is the recovery of the Bitcoin Market still Possible?

The digital Market goes through ups and downs several times in a year. Bitcoin has also gone through this in the past. But it has recovered every time with high numbers.

As of now, Bitcoin is trading above the market price point of $7,340. It can be considered a new signal. But nothing can be predicted with assurance. So, we are here hoping for the best to happen.