DATE:  11.04.2019, 09:08:27
TITLE: Simple Bitcoin Widget Gives You Crypto Prices on the Go
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/simple-bitcoin-widget-gives-you-crypto-prices-on-the-go/

Simple Bitcoin Widget Gives You Crypto Prices on the Go

Traders and enthusiasts who wish to stay informed about cryptocurrency price movements need easy to use software that can do the job. Simple Bitcoin Widget is an open source application that pulls market data for popular coins from major trading platforms to update you on the go.

Also read: How to Easily Find Businesses That Accept Bitcoin Cash Near You

Free Widget Tracks Popular Cryptocurrencies

Simple Bitcoin Widget, developed for Android devices, has over 100,000 installs from the Google Play store. It is not a full application, which means it doesn’t take up a lot of valuable space on your phone. It’s also easy on your device’s battery life.

The software is capable of tracking around two dozen of the most popular coins including bitcoin cash, bitcoin core, ethereum, and litecoin. It can update you on their prices from over 80 cryptocurrency exchanges, including the largest digital asset platforms by trading volume such as Binance, Okex and Huobi.

Simple Bitcoin Widget is customizable and can display the rates of multiple cryptocurrencies on your home screen. Users can set different refresh intervals, from 5 minutes to 24 hours, and choose a number of fiat currencies including the U.S. dollar, euro, British pound, Brazilian real and the Czech koruna.

The widget does not require loads of unnecessary permissions to operate on your mobile device; only those relating to network connections. Finally, the app is free to download and install and doesn’t come with annoying ads.

Bitcoin.com also offers a variety of useful widgets that can be embedded on your website such as the Bitcoin Cash (BCH) Price Chart Widget and the Simple BCH Price Widget. To keep your visitors updated on the latest developments in the crypto space you can also install the News Headlines Widget and Forum Topics Widget or embed the News Ticker.

Do you use a widget to track the price of cryptocurrencies? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can even lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.