DATE:  31.03.2020, 12:09:21
TITLE: Bitcoin BTC Sold To Put Fiat Into Pockets Due To Hassles Caused By COVID-19
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/13010/bitcoin-btc-sold-to-put-fiat-into-pockets-due-to-hassles-caused-by-covid-19/

Bitcoin was $12 at the first halving and $652 at the second, and we are now awaiting the third halving in 44 days. The iron is hot, and this might be the right time to strike.

Making money with Bitcoin is about going long on the bottom and going short with each top. Trading can be as simple. The monetary system has become oppressive and rigged. Most are not able to work. It is time to get some knowledge about Bitcoin, and when one has some decent knowledge, it starts developing more with time. Bitcoin is now considered to be oversold. This is something that had never happened before.

Several big businesses and banks are likely to get bailouts. The idea of HODL is about delayed gratification. So, the idea of HODLing Bitcoin is to consume or invest more tomorrow. It is important for every Bitcoin buyer to know why they are buying before they do buy.

One of the Twitter read thus: “The US Federal Reserve’s balance sheet increased $586 billion to a new record of $5.25 trillion last week. The Fed has been printing roughly $1 million every second and the entire equivalent of Bitcoin’s market cap every 35 hours. This is exactly why Bitcoin was created.

Sydney Ifergan, the Crypto Expert, tweeted: “The world will now wake to the reality of Bitcoin. The price of the BTC is getting tuned. It is time we orient and save on our value.”

Many people are going to sell their Bitcoin to put some fiat money into their pockets due to the hassles caused by COVID-19.

Bitcoin Selling “Our Money Our Currency”

Just like Gold, the USD will be valuable only for as long as the fiat is limited in supply. When they begin to print, the story is different.

Peter Schiff tweeted: “#Bitcoin bugs criticize me for recommending #gold because anyone who bought at the absolute high is still down 14%. Well, anyone who did that with Bitcoin is down 70%. So, if I was wrong for recommending buying gold, what does that say about those who recommended buying Bitcoin?”

Bitcoin has been outperforming Gold in all standard time periods and most of the calendar years ever since the coming of the Bitcoin. Countries across the world will be reducing interest rates.

Donald Trump recently stated, “Well, there’s that. “It’s our money. It’s our currency.” We can do whatever it takes.”

Peter Schiff further stated, “More miners will likely shut down after the Halving when mining rewards are cut in half.”

We need to wait to see how reality unfolds.

Advertisement