DATE:  31.03.2020, 07:46:29
TITLE: Investor Explains Why Investing In Bitcoin Can Be The Best Pension Plan ⋆ ZyCrypto
URL:   https://zycrypto.com/investor-explains-why-investing-in-bitcoin-can-be-the-best-pension-plan/

Advertisement

The Bitcoin market has been negatively affected due to the current world economic crises caused by the pandemic reports in almost every country. However, Bitcoin continues to thrill the commercial space and has recently been ticked by investors and experts as part of the best pension strategy.

Planning for retirement is, by far, an essential thing for everyone approaching old age. There is a rush to mass up much wealth to build a stable financial status before pension hits.

Many in the crypto space have spoken concerning how public pension funds are starting to make Bitcoin investments. This has suggested a sharp market reaction, especially for Bitcoin, which has given the crypto market a strong push.

Recently, a lot of stories have popped up about the link between crypto investment and pension funds. An example is the $40 million Blockchain Venture Capital Fund put in place by Morgan Creeks, as reported on many outlets.

In an investor discussion on how institutional players such as the pension reserves can get more interest, Mark Yusko said working with the pension fund for many years made him realize that there are many rules and procedures to follow.

Advertisement

Therefore, investment of all sorts is not just made for its interest, but they put in a lot of time and effort to get permission to arrive at a successful investment. He believes that the popularization of Bitcoin investment stories by pension consultants will make most funds come to the knowledge that investing in Bitcoin is good.

Reports have shown other surfacing reports of crypto investments that connect with pension funds.

Some investors also believe that benefits such as the transparent market for investors to hold funds, easy and fast transactions without any authority tax are significant factors. Others also base on the high potential returns derived from Bitcoin investments which in any case, makes it the best pension plan for investors.

The Bitcoin halving scheduled in May has brought many speculations, which some assume was the fuel to the rally in February. However, Bitcoin and other top cryptocurrencies such as Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash, and Dash have brought many gains to its investors as the crypto market recuperated to new highs since the beginning of the year.