DATE:  31.03.2020, 13:32:01
TITLE: Markets in the Time of Covid-19
URL:   https://www.coinspeaker.com/markets-time-covid-19/

Market volatility remains high. That we’re in a recession is not a matter of doubt. At this point, it’s a question of mitigating its severity.

Market volatility remains high as the Trump administration continues to address itself to the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences. A degree of guarded confidence and corresponding gains have, however, arrested the marked drops in the S&P 500 and Dow, thanks to the approximately 2 trillion-dollar stabilization package currently being negotiated in Washington. That we’re in a recession is not a matter of doubt. At this point, it’s a question of mitigating its severity.

Amidst the turmoil of the traditional markets, Bitcoin has begun to defy the prevailing gravity, moving from just above a support position of $5,400 to $6,700.

What the pandemic has made abundantly obvious is the need for a radical renovation of healthcare. That’s renovation in the sense of rebirth; piecemeal or nominal effort to rectify healthcare inefficiencies on the part of governments that have been belated, equivocal and haphazard in their response to the pandemic thus far will not appease their constituents, certainly not if the rate of mortality is anything like what some epidemiologists have projected. Anticipate genuine, considerable financing of healthcare.

Solve.Care

Few, if any, are better positioned than Solve.Care to assume a place at the forefront of this long overdue revitalization.

Recipient of the Most Innovative Blockchain Project Award at the Blockchain Life 2019 Forum in Singapore, Solve.Care has already established itself: the Arizona Care Network, which consists of over 300,000 members, 5,500+ providers, and 200+ facilities in Arizona conducts all value-based payments within the Solve.Care ecosystem. A partnership with HMS Technologies is enhancing client services in the U.S. federal sector. The U.S. government employs about two million people.

Solve.Care’s express purpose is to radically redefine healthcare, first and foremost to correct otherwise bloated medical administrative costs, and, in so doing, increase access to better quality care for individual patients. But the patients themselves are not the exclusive beneficiaries of this innovative platform: employers, insurance providers, administrators, and governments alike stand to gain enormously by ridding themselves of antiquated and costly practices of the sort that have hampered a concerted, coherent response to the current crisis.

SOLVE Tokens

SOLVE is the native, ERC20 utility token necessary for any and all transactions on the Solve.Care platform. It functions as the currency within the ecosystem for clinical organizations, insurance providers, and the end users themselves. Participation requires SOLVE tokens.

In so far as SOLVE has its own inherent value within rapidly proliferating Care Administration Networks, it is not, unlike other blockchain technologies, subject to the same externalities. Bitcoin price movements are not a concern.

Solve.Care represents a significant, perhaps unprecedented, market opportunity.

Once the pandemic subsides, as it eventually must, whether within the next two to three months, or twelve, even the most backward institutional authority will acknowledge the necessity for a simple, responsive, and efficient healthcare system, one that makes use of the tremendous potential of decentralized ledger technology.

With direct institutional recognition or that demanded by a citizenry that has borne the brunt of the recession, governments won’t have to apologize for pouring money into something that could secure the economy against a relapse. Should Solve.Care receive widespread adoption, it would create substantial value.

Author: Natallia Maksimenko Having deep expertise in intercultural communications, Natallia is fond of foreign languages and cultures. She strongly believes that people should continually develop to stay on track, that's why she permanently widens her knowledge in various spheres. Currently, Natallia is fully immersed in crypto, blockchain and financial techs.