DATE:  31.03.2020, 13:00:19
TITLE: NEM, DigitByte, Bitcoin SV Price: Sideways movement stalls momentum
URL:   https://eng.ambcrypto.com/nem-digitbyte-bitcoin-sv-price-sideways-movement-stalls-momentum/

Crypto-assets faced one of the worst slumps in history in March 2020, with several crypto-assets continuing to project a high degree of volatility. Despite prices relatively stabilizing, certain crypto-assets did record a bit of movement over the past 24 hours.

Bitcoin SV received a temporary boost in its price after the 6th largest digital asset recorded a spike of 11.25 percent over the past 24-hours. Its valuation surged from $155 to $173 over a span of 12 hours.

At press time, corrections had taken place as the valuation came down to $165. Its market remained above the $3 billion mark, but trading volume was slightly underwhelming with just $2.3 billion recorded.

In spite of a rise, however, indicators suggested that BSV remained in a long-term bearish trend, with the MACD and Parabolic indicators adhering to bearish sentiment.

Bitcoin SV was in the news after recent reports suggested that HandCash and MoneyButton, two major wallets in the BSV space, were entering into a partnership to re-introduce true “peer-to-peer” transactions for Bitcoin.

On the contrary, NEM token faced a drop of 4.07 percent over the past day, as its price dropped from $0.0379 to $0.0364. Its market cap was upwards of $330 million, but trading volume over the past day was extremely low with only $28 million.

However, a lack of activity did not affect its trend as indicators suggested that the token was bullish in the short-term. Aroon indicator suggested that the bulls had the upper hand in the market, whereas the dotted markers of the Parabolic SAR line remained under the candles, at press time.

The NEM Foundation was in the headlines after it recently revealed symbol blockchain standards in order to facilitate the issuance of security tokens.

Finally, DGB token registered a minor rise of 2.62 percent, at press time, as its market cap continued to be around $57 million. Its trading volume over the 24-hour was a measly $1.7 million.

Market indicators remain split for the asset as the Parabolic SAR suggested a bullish reversal on the charts. However, the RSI registered a move towards higher selling pressure, neutralizing the above sentiment.