DATE:  31.03.2020, 16:07:49
TITLE: The law comes for Bitcoin, Satoshi claimant Craig Wright warns
URL:   https://winkreport.com/the-law-comes-for-bitcoin-satoshi-claimant-craig-wright-warns/

The man who claims to be Satoshi Nakamoto says 2020 is the year that the law comes for Bitcoin. Craig Wright wrote on his personal blog and provided a picture of the future of Bitcoin, which does not bode well for operators of Bitcoin’s Lightning Network or the coin miners.

One of Bitcoin’s biggest attractions is its supposedly permissionless, authority-proof character. But according to Wright, these are illusions.

Wright claims that any amount of Bitcoin purchased without complying with legally recognized CDD (customer due diligence) and KYC (know your customer) requirements is in fact stolen Bitcoin.

According to Wright, that poses problems for Lightning Network operators who receive such ‘stolen’ Bitcoin:

“Lightning is about creating a system that isn’t built on individual tokens, but rather on balances, because they are treated very differently by law. Still, the Lightning Network cannot operate without Bitcoin tokens as an initial basis. This is the biggest flaw of the system. ‘

Wright claims that the Lightning Network’s system of symbols and balances will not protect it from legal investigation and enforcement.

“If stolen bitcoin is passed on to a Lightning channel, the buyer in the Lightning channel doesn’t get a good title. Likewise, the civil rule of nemo plus iuris ad alium transferre potest quam ipse habet, or “one cannot transfer more rights to the other than he has” means that it does not matter if you send bitcoin to a Lightning channel; if the bitcoin is stolen, they cannot be transferred. ”

Wright also mentions Nemo’s legal principle that quod non habet – or, “no one can give what they don’t have.” Failure to legally transfer legal rights to the “stolen” coins would, according to Wright, expose the Lightning Network to the threat of a court sanctioned freezing order.

Going even further, Wright repeats another ominous scenario for Bitcoin miners. Namely, any miner who receives or has ‘stolen’ bitcoin can be prosecuted by the authorities according to a country’s standard theft laws.

Wright mentions part of the British Theft Act (1968) which deals with the handling of stolen goods – an indictment involving a maximum prison sentence of 14 years in the United Kingdom.

“A person treats stolen goods if he (other than during the stealing) knows or believes they are stolen, unfairly receives the goods, or unfairly binds or assists in holding, removing, removing or realizing them by or on behalf of another person, or if he arranges that. ‘

Craig Wright’s forecasts are based on his assumption that Bitcoin will be stolen if not bought under the jurisdiction of the CDD and KYC laws. At the moment, there is no such enforcement of property laws around Bitcoin.

Attorney, Preston J. Byrne, notes that Wright’s scenario will not take place unless a commonly agreed “blacklist” of stolen coins was available to everyone. Byrne says:

“If there was a legally established central register of stolen BTC, which any BTC purchaser in a particular jurisdiction was deemed to have constructive knowledge of these claims, the notification could be attributed if a party did not check that register and then the Blacklisted payment would accept coins. ‘

As Byrne notes, such a register does not currently exist. The law may very well meet Bitcoin one day, but will it be under the circumstances Craig Wright suggests?

Register for our groups Facebook and Telegram and stay tuned.