DATE:  31.03.2020, 17:46:07
TITLE: The Easiest Bitcoin Wallet For Beginners
URL:   https://divingdaily.com/2020/03/31/the-easiest-bitcoin-wallet-for-beginners/

E-money is becoming increasingly popular. The cryptocurrency industry is relatively young and untapped by many people. Therefore, there is a fear that Internet operations in the field of finance are accessible only to a narrow circle of people, so-called “advanced users”. This opinion is erroneous. Bitcoin is available for all, it is understandable and easy to use. It will take you a few minutes to have your own Bitcoin wallet and buy Bitcoin. Next, you become a cryptocurrency holder and you can dispose of Bitcoins at your discretion.

The first and most important step, which scares and slows down many, is to create your own Bitcoin wallet. There are a lot of specials on Internet sites, both new and already time-tested. The easiest and most proven Bitcoin wallet to date is an international Bitcoinofficial.org service.

The Easiest Bitcoin Wallet

All you need to do is enter your valid email address and create a password on the site. One minute and you are already the owner of your own online Bitcoin wallet. Exactly, therefore, https://bitcoinofficial.org – can be called the simplest Bitcoin wallet for beginners. You do not need any documents. The site does not require a confirmation mailbox. In addition, the Bitcoinofficial service is as secure as possible and translated into many languages including Arabic. Pay note that password entry is only available to you, so it’s worth remembering or writes down. The creators of the service warn of your personal responsibility.

Using a Bitcoin Wallet

The main thing is done – the wallet is created. Next, you go to your personal password cabinet on the site https://bitcoinofficial.org. Everything is so clear here that it does not require further explanation. Here we buy bitcoins or sell them at necessary. It is possible to send and receive, as well as exchange cryptocurrency. Bitcoin wallet can also be used as your personal free perpetual bank cell for storing funds without making transactions.