DATE:  31.03.2020, 07:44:35
TITLE: The 2 sites to earn bitcoins by answering surveys
URL:   https://winkreport.com/the-2-sites-to-earn-bitcoins-by-answering-surveys/

In this article, I would like to show you 3 sites that allow you to earn bitcoins in exchange for your survey answers. It is not about freelance work or even complex tasks, it is an intermediate form called “micro task” in English. It basically means micro tasks, but it doesn’t work out well in French … I agree.

In short, if you are also limiting yourself to this difficult period when the cryptocurrency market is likely to experience an incredible ballTrap, now might be the time. For new entrants to the trade, a bullTrap means it’s a bearish trend with a misleading signal. In fact, it would be a sharp drop that basically heralds an impending rise. Whether true or false … that’s something else.

The fact remains that many of us think that despite the current storm, where all the stock markets in the world are in free fall, bitcoin will be able to rise once everything has calmed down. So the real question is how long it will take …

In short, let’s stop procrastinating and discover the 3 sites that allow you to earn bitcoins quickly by answering surveys. Who knows, when the storm’s over you would be glad you collected bitcoin, right?

1 / BitcoinGet : Respond to surveys and polls

You know – I think – this kind of site. There are plenty of euros and dollars. There it is the same principle, but with bitcoins. The principle is simple: all you have to do is answer surveys paid by marketing agencies.

It can be on specific products or something else. The fact remains that it is often about understanding and determining purchasing behavior.

Polls vary over time; Some take 5 minutes, others 10 or more.

Keep in mind that the longer the survey is, the more you earn.

> Register on the site and start earning bitcoins: BitcoinGet

2 / The site Earn Crypto to earn all types of cryptocurrencies with paid surveys

So this is a site that not only allows you to earn bitcoins but also all kinds of cryptocurrencies. A really wide range! However, you can choose that; type of cryptocurrencies you want to earn. For example, I chose bitcoin because I really remain a loyal and unconditional fan of Nakamoto. That said, it can be a great opportunity to earn other cryptocurrencies.

The other advantage of this site is also that you can earn cryptocurrencies in different ways. Not only by responding to surveys!

That said, the other ways to win crypts can be somewhat tedious. For example, if you want to watch videos, well, every time you have to provide an email address and fill out a form. Obviously it can get boring quickly.

Besides, if you still want to do it – because you can earn “big” by watching videos – well, don’t forget to create a special email address. For example on Yahoo or Google.

Do it really, otherwise your mailbox will be filled with spam very quickly!

Register on the site Earncrypto.com

(By the way, if you like the principle of watching videos to earn bitcoins, I recommend this site which is really very well done: Adbtc)

Finally, if you want a site to earn bitcoin from paid surveys, you can do it on your smartphone.

3 / The Bituro application to earn bitcoins and gift cards

There it is the same as the previous site, but you can do it directly on your phone. I know many of you prefer apps when it comes to cryptocurrencies. So this is a good alternative for you.

Download the application now: Bituro.

The only drawback: the app is not available for all countries. I am currently outside of France and I cannot use the application …