DATE:  31.03.2020, 22:07:28
TITLE: The Bitcoin Pizza Restaurant records a 90% drop in sales
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/the-bitcoin-pizza-restaurant-records-a-90-drop-in-sales/

[ad_1]



A Swedish bitcoin pizza restaurant is currently facing bankruptcy when the coronavirus pandemic hits Sweden.

Like most countries, Sweden was severely affected by the recent outbreak of the coronavirus, with more than 3,866 COVID-19 cases currently active in the country and 146 deaths.

Unlike most other countries that have put in place strict movement controls and blocking procedures, Sweden has opted for a more relaxed response instead. Instead, Swedes are encouraged to work from home wherever possible, restrict public gatherings, and wash their hands frequently while most shops are open as usual.

Crypto-friendly pizzeria Ariana is one of these companies, which is still operated as "business as usual". The restaurant in Kungsholmen in the Swedish capital Stockholm is one of only a handful of restaurants in the country that accept cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin (BTC) as a payment option.

Although Ariana opened its doors for the first time in January, Ariana is now facing a possible bankruptcy, as sales have dropped 90% in the past few weeks.

"At lunchtime we normally have between 40 and 70 guests, but now there are only 10 to a maximum of 15 guests," says restaurant owner Sekander Islamzai told Trijo news.

Not enough help available

Although Sweden has chosen to keep business open during the pandemic, companies and restaurants have been losing interest in the restaurant and hotel sector in recent weeks as many Swedes are now avoiding unnecessary travel and working from home instead.

The Swedish government has started to offer support to companies in difficulty, including a series of crisis packages that help small businesses reduce wage tax and rental costs. Sekander Islamzai is an advantage, but does not believe that it will be enough.

“We were able to do business with the money that we brought in earlier, but since our sales have dropped 90 percent, it is no longer sustainable. The measures taken by the government help, but if it doesn't put money into the cash register, it won't work. "

One of the first Bitcoin transactions involved two Papa Johns pizzas. Picture: Shutterstock.

Sekander Islamzai hopes that online sales via apps and donations for food delivery will support the company until Bitcoin Pizza Day (May 22) when the restaurant plans to launch a special menu for the crypto community.

Bitcoin Pizza Day refers to the day Laszlo Hanyecz agreed to pay 10,000 Bitcoin for two Papa Johns pizzas. The deal was one of the first Bitcoin transactions. That amount of Bitcoin would currently be worth $ 63,830,000.