DATE:  07.03.2019, 13:13:15
TITLE: Guatemala VS. El Salvador: preview, date, live stream, kick off time, & watch online
URL:   https://www.sportda.com/guatemala-vs-el-salvador-preview-date-live-stream-kick-off-time-watch-online/

It’s not secret that Guatemala FC wants to elevate themselves to the top tier of International Friendly. The two sides are currently not level on points in the International Friendly and a win could see one of them move up to tenth if other results go their way. To be amongst the elite, both teams need to play well. Hope we are going to watch some eye-catching shots from both sides.

The Bengaluru FC coach is confident his side can hurt Guatemala FC. Although they lost some games, the experience gained will be vital. As they say, anyone can beat anyone on their day and this holds true for Guatemala FC too.

Match details at a glance,

International Friendly, Guatemala FC vs Bengaluru FC

Date: March 07

Time: 15:30 (Uk Time)

Location: Indira Gandhi Stadium

Guatemala FC vs Bengaluru FC Live Stream: Fubo TV

Guatemala FC: At this point for Guatemala FC, it’s all about taking care of scores and not worrying too much about what Bengaluru FC does. But they know Bengaluru FC draw on their previous meeting and may feel a bit more pressure with this one. If Guatemala FC can regain its top form, it will be a great battle. The Coach will tell the guys to remain calm, do what they know how to do, and dominate from start to finish. After beating Bengaluru FC, confidence is as high as can be.

Bengaluru FC: Bengaluru FC will not take their competitor easily. That shows that they can compete with the biggest teams in the Spanish Primera División, and Guatemala FC will be well aware of entering this contest that they aren’t to be taken lightly.

Match Statistics:

LAST FIVE GAMES DATE COMPETITION L Israel 7-0 Guatemala International Friendly L Ecuador 2-0 Guatemala International Friendly L Argentina 3-0 Guatemala International Friendly W Guatemala 1-0 Cuba International Friendly W Guatemala 3-0 Cuba International Friendly

LAST FIVE GAMES DATE COMPETITION W El Salvador 1-0 Haiti International Friendly L Bermuda 1-0 El Salvador CONCACAF Nations League Qualifying W El Salvador 3-0 Barbados CONCACAF Nations League Qualifying L Brazil 5-0 El Salvador International Friendly W Montserrat 1-2 El Salvador CONCACAF Nations League Qualifying

Head To Head Record LAST FIVE GAMES DATE COMPETITION Guatemala 0-0 El Salvador International Friendly El Salvador 1-0 Guatemala International Friendly El Salvador 2-1 Guatemala International Friendly El Salvador 1-2 Guatemala International Friendly Guatemala 0-0 El Salvador International Friendly