DATE:  24.07.2019, 12:36:58
TITLE: Donate bitcoin and aid Venezuelans suffering from water shortage
URL:   https://coinnounce.com/donate-bitcoin-and-aid-venezuelans-suffering-from-water-shortage/

Venezuela is submerged in darkness

Widespread Venezuelan blackouts, that left millions without access to power, on Monday are predicted to be a common occurrence.

According to José Aguilar, a US-based Venezuelan energy and risk consultant, “This blackout is the result of negligent misoperation of the power grid. These will keep happening, and it will get worse before it gets better.”

Dearth of Potable water

These outages have adversely affected water accessibility, and there is a dire water shortage faced by crisis-ridden Venezuelans.

Without electricity, water pumps have lost their functionality, forcing thousands of people to queue up for water. Power outage lasts for 19-21 hours a day, but water-stress doesn’t end when the power is back on as the rusting pipes severely affect the water’s potability.

Contaminated water has increased gastrointestinal infections, stomach ailments, and diarrhea among people with no access to any medical facilities.

According to the government, the power shortage has arisen due to low rainfall and drought as 64% of Venezuela runs on hydroelectricity.

World’s premier cryptocurrency-based Nonprofit Organisation – BitGive’s objective is to incorporate the decentralization and transparency of Blockchain into humanitarian work.

BitGive is partnering with South American Initiative (SAI) to provide clean drinking water and nutritious food for children, patients, and animals.

A week without water can lead to death, and we urge you to donate to ensure Venezuelans don’t face the same fate.

Donations can be made through Bitcoin. A tax receipt will be issued after every donation and can be used to claim tax deductions.

You can contribute to the following projects:

1. Help Venezuelan Hospitals

2. Help Venezuelan Orphans

3. Help Abandoned Venezuelan Pets

We urge our readers to donate and help the Venezuelan citizens survive this crisis, that experts believe is the result of government’s corruption and incompetence.