DATE:  24.07.2019, 17:30:23
TITLE: PR: bitHolla Releases Open Exchange Kit HollaExShell
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-bitholla-releases-open-exchange-kit-hollaexshell/

PR: bitHolla Releases Open Exchange Kit HollaExShell

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Seoul, South Korea – July 22, 2019 – bitHolla, the company that builds customized cryptocurrency trading software is announcing the launch of its new product HollaExShell, an open exchange software package, giving anyone the ability to launch a full ﬂedged crypto exchange from a command-line interface. HollaEx packages provided by bitHolla allow crypto enthusiasts and business operators to create a trading venue website in less than a few minutes without the need for setting up complicated server infrastructure or coding complicated logic for trade matching engines.

“This package is years in the making, and we are absolutely curious to finally see people create more open markets globally” says bitHolla co-founder Alireza Beikverdi. bitHolla’s stated goal is to create more markets and make a user-friendly way to launch them in the hope of driving mainstream adoption of digital assets. Through its straightforward configuration and deployment procedures, the launching process has now been streamlined and standardized.

bitHolla has already been providing exchange solutions to its clients globally with its powerful system and trading engine. Packaging all the complexity of its services into a single standalone customizable solution took months of testing in the ﬁeld and now can deliver what it claims to be the most affordable and streamlined exchange software out there. The package will be directly competing with established white-label exchange providers. ”Most white-label exchange providers are a nightmare to deal with,” explains Mr. Beikverdi, ”they’re made for large institutions, that have long drawn out processes before anything is launched, which adds up, becoming extremely over priced from the region of at least $100,000s to $500,000s and beyond. Additionally the current solutions in the market are very restricted in what can be customized. Additional features and modiﬁcations are not easily possible and requires significant cost and justification for the solution providers. What about business savvy people that want to partake in the exchange business that don’t have a large capital to sink and a team of crypto developers? We want to make it ridiculously obtainable for all enthusiasts to be able to open an exchange anywhere in the world with as little as $50,000.”

With the recent rise in Bitcoin price, there are more players trying to enter the market, as a result exchange business is a very lucrative business model and is essentially the first infrastructure required for serious players who want to get their feet into the game. Whether it is a hot cryptocurrency exchange, trading different digital tokens or an old school trading ﬁrm, they can all beneﬁt from this solution. There are currently estimated to be more than 200 crypto exchanges only in South Korea alone. In a global scale, the demand is even larger.

HollaExShell is the 3rd product by bitHolla, a South Korean-based trading software provider which is also the creator of crypto trading terminal XRayTrade. The company was founded by renowned computer scientist and cryptographer Alireza Beikverdi. bitHolla was accelerated through Chinaccelerator in Shanghai and MOX in Taipei, and have received venture backing from SOSV, the only outside investor in the number one Bitcoin derivatives exchange platform BitMEX. The company is an early player in the crypto ﬁeld dating back to early 2015.

“We want everyone to have fair access to investment markets no matter where they are, and we want to see HollaExShell help drive that vision,” says Mr. Beikverdi, “our responsibility is to deliver fast and secure exchange technology to anyone and level the financial playing.”

Contact Email Address

ashley@bitholla.com

Supporting Link

https://bitholla.com/hollaexshelloverview

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.