DATE:  24.07.2019, 09:30:25
TITLE: PR: Pbet Raises Storm in Casino Space With Blockchain Solution
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-pbet-raises-storm-in-casino-space-with-blockchain-solution/

PR: Pbet Raises Storm in Casino Space With Blockchain Solution

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Pbet has come up with a complete blockchain crypto-based gaming platform that will redefine the existing casino industry and lead to a fair, trusted, transparent, more secured and affordable casino ecosystem.

Place, Date: The online casino industry has had a new promising launch recently. Titled “Pbet”, the latest gaming platform brings a new wave in the existing virtual casino space with its cutting-edge design and infrastructure. But, interestingly, Pbet is more than a simple online casino- it’s more of a revolution that aims to set in a new dawn in crypto space with its innovative full blockchain solution.

Pbet is a blockchain crypto-based gaming platform which is aimed to create a convergence between brick and mortar and online gambling through its breakthrough Unified Gaming Platform. This Unified platform aims to combine all 3 into- Players, Casinos and Pbet- to create tailor-added value for each one of them.

“We will partner with physical casinos and help them to offer online gaming to highly-valued players- yet at a fraction of regular acquisition cost of online players. We know many land-based casinos are apprehensive of expanding online given high fees and lack of specialized resources to operate online casino system. But our blockchain-based turn-key, zero fix fees, revenue sharing model will help physical casinos to expand online easily without worrying of high costs. We will also support them with specialized resources to operate online casino system”, stated a leading spokesperson from Pbet.

“Our blockchain-based system assures crypto payments which mean lesser transaction fees, instant withdrawals and more savings for players compared to playing in regular online casinos.”

Speaking further, he highlighted on benefits assured by Pbet’s blockchain crypto-based system for casinos and players-

Fair ecosystem: Blockchain’s Decentralized technology is not controlled by an entity

Increased Trust: Blockchain assures transparency of information and hence increased trust among Providers, Players, Platform and operator

Privacy: Players won’t be needed to share personal data for payment accuracy

Less Payment fees: Crypto-currencies allow for big savings compared to Fiat

Faster Payment processing: Instant deposits and withdrawals

Easy Portability: Safe way of moving funds for players between physical and online casinos.

Pbet is also poised to revolutionize the reward system in casinos through its blockchain-based, consortium reward model that will be applicable in both physical casinos and their online versions. This next-gen reward model will that pools together hospitality and hotel loyalty programs along with gaming rewards and create limitless loyalty spending ecosystem which will be free from the typical barriers of existing casino reward systems.

For more, please visit https://pbet.io/.

Contact Email Address

info@pbet.io

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.