DATE:  31.12.2019, 22:00:33
TITLE: Live Streaming Platform Dlive Joins Bittorrent Ecosystem
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/live-streaming-platform-dlive-joins-bittorrent-ecosystem/

Live Streaming Platform Dlive Joins Bittorrent Ecosystem

Live streaming platform Dlive will soon be joining the Bittorrent ecosystem and begin migrating to the Tron blockchain. The decentralized Twitch alternative supported by Youtube star Pewdiepie will no longer support the Lino blockchain after the transition to Tron is complete.



Also Read: Youtube Star Pewdiepie Joins Live Streaming Platform That Accepts Cryptocurrency

Dlive Enters Justin Sun’s Orbit

Bittorrent has announced that Dlive, a blockchain-based content sharing platform, will be joining its ecosystem and begin a migration to the Tron blockchain. Last year Justin Sun, the founder of “decentralized web” crypto Tron, has taken over Bittorrent Inc, the San Francisco-headquartered company founded in 2004 to manage the ongoing development of the Bittorrent peer-to-peer file sharing protocol.

As part of the deal, Dlive will advertise its products and services on Bittorrent as well as using its newest service for storage. The two sides explained that Dlive and its blockchain development team will collaborate with the Bittorrent team to bolster its products and services. Blive, the live streaming platform introduced by Bittorrent in early 2019, will be merged into the Dlive platform, and their team will join the Dlive team. Dlive will begin utilizing the Bittorrent File-Sharing System (BTFS), a distributed file sharing and storage system, and will also merge its account systems with Bittorrent’s to further integrate each community with the other.

“We are ecstatic to have the opportunity to be part of the Bittorrent ecosystem,” said Charles Wayn, CEO of Dlive. “I’ve watched them pioneer the digital peer-to-peer space. Dlive’s goal of empowering creators and rewarding communities is one step closer with the amplification of this new venture.”

Dlive is mainly an alternative to video live streaming platform Twitch. It claims to have over five million monthly active users and is available online at Dlive.tv as well as via its Android and iOS apps. Content creators and viewers can earn rewards for their participation in the form of Lino points, the native tokens of the network. For users outside the U.S. it is also possible to buy Lino points with cryptocurrency including bitcoin cash (BCH) as well as BTC, ETH and LTC. The platform got a big boost to its brand earlier this year when Pewdiepie, the leading Youtube star with over 100 million subscribers, started streaming with Dlive.

Lino Abandoned After Blockchain Migrating to Tron

Dlive also explained that by joining the Bittorrent ecosystem, it will no longer support the Lino blockchain after the transition to the Tron blockchain is complete. The Lino blockchain technical infrastructure will be integrated into Bittorrent, however the Lino coin will no longer be the fundamental unit of value or utilization in the new ecosystem. To facilitate the integration of BTT into the existing Dlive ecosystem, Dlive is expected to offer various benefits and rewards to existing users to transition from the Lino blockchain into the Bittorrent ecosystem. Once the migration to the Tron blockchain is successfully completed, Dlive will no longer utilize the Lino blockchain.

Regarding the Lino blockchain mainnet, the foundation of the Lino Network has announced that they have entered into a strategic partnership with the Bittorrent foundation. In conjunction with the partnership, the foundation will no longer support the Lino blockchain mainnet and the Lino coins. The foundation is currently working with the Bittorrent foundation on a plan to introduce the Bittorrent protocol and the BTT tokens to the Lino community. Further details are expected to be provided on January 15, 2020 for Lino coin holders and Lino blockchain validators.

“Dlive is one of the best real-world examples of what is possible when you combine blockchain and digital media,” said Justin Sun, CEO of Bittorrent. “Dlive is a great solution for live media producers. Think of how valuable live streaming content is already to centralized social media platforms who take ownership and advantage of their users’ hard work. We look forward to Dlive bringing value to the entire world with the addition of Tron and Bittorrent’s global community of passionate creators.”

The Dlive migration comes at a very good time to help Tron get new people onboard. Only recently the Google-owned video sharing website Youtube removed content and banned channels that promote or otherwise analyze the digital asset markets. The company has since claimed this was done by mistake and reinstated some channels but it already drove many in the crypto community to look for ways to back up their content or even migrate to alternative platforms.

What do you think about Dlive joining the Bittorrent ecosystem? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.