DATE:  28.09.2019, 22:33:50
TITLE: Understanding the Best and Worst Features of Decentralized Exchanges (DEX) for Bitcoin and Crypto: A Comprehensive Guidance
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2019/09/28/understanding-the-best-and-worst-features-of-decentralized-exchanges-dex-for-bitcoin-and-crypto-a-comprehensive-guidance/

What is a decentralized exchange (DEX)?

A DEX is a blockchain-based exchange that doesn’t store user funds and personal data on its servers and acts only as an infrastructure for matching buyers and sellers wishing to trade digital assets. Such trading occurs directly between participants (peer-to-peer) with the help of matching engines. At the same time, most existing so-called “decentralized” exchanges are not truly decentralized: they belong to a centralized entity that cannot be decentralized by default. It does not matter how distributed this entity may be. Ultimately, decentralization means that a single source cannot be acting as the backbone of the system.

This article reveals the key features that a decentralized exchange should have. So, it is worth describing the pros and cons of such an exchange.

Pros

The exchange does not control your assets.

Unlike centralized exchanges that store and control the assets on their exchanges, a DEX doesn’t control their customers’ funds. Instead, the funds are stored in a decentralized manner, usually by the users or by the exchange software itself. This way, there is no one single entity acting as the owner of all the cryptocurrencies on the exchange, and the risk of loss is much lower.

Anonymity

All you need to use a DEX is a public key. At the same time, some DEX creators claim that they only release open-source software and are not responsible for what the community is doing with this software, thereby avoiding KYC and AML issues.

Security

Over the past 10 years, more than 30 hacks of centralized crypto exchanges, such as Mt.Gox and Coincheck, have occurred. Until now, attempts to steal do not stop – daily hackers are looking for ways to exploit vulnerabilities in centralized systems. Since a DEX exists on a network of computers, attacking decentralized exchanges becomes much more difficult. There is no single point of entry or failure. This makes DEXs exponentially safer.

Cons

Low liquidity and adoption

Decentralized exchanges are still not as popular as their centralized counterparts. Accordingly, they have fewer customers, trading volumes, and liquidity – and transactions take much longer to settle. At the moment DEXs represent about 1.5% of the cryptocurrency market trading volume.