DATE:  16.03.2019, 15:00:15
TITLE: Get Paid in Bitcoin and Plant Tress While You Listen; Sounds Like a Good Deal
URL:   https://blockpublisher.com/get-paid-in-bitcoin-and-plant-tress-while-you-listen-sounds-like-a-good-deal/

This seems like an ultimate deal for millennials. Nothing makes us wet like environmental care and opportunity to save the world. Whether we take rides and plants trees or #TweetAMeal to feed a poor family, we are down for it any time because unlike baby boomers we look beyond ourselves.

An environmentally friendly streaming music service that pays artists in bitcoin and lets you plants trees in exchange for streams from customers. This seem like ultimate flippant sales pitch to target the Gen Z.

We are not joking about this. It is a serious venture by streaming music upstart Feedbands that targets indie musicians and bands, so if you are an indie band that also cares about the environment, moreover the added bonus of getting cryptocurrency so your payments are never delayed, THIS is your place.

In a way to carve out a niche from all the music streaming giants like Spotify and Apple Music, it has come up with an innovative way to generate royalties that are beneficial to both the parties: musicians and listeners alike. All the while encouraging you to save the planet without any hassle.

What we are trying to do is turn music streaming into something that directly fights climate change,” Graham Langdon, founder and CEO of Feedbands, told Digital Trends. “Our new platform plants one tree for every 100 qualified streams. In order to maximize our effectiveness, we are leveraging Bitcoin to provide incentives at every level: Paying artists more per stream than Spotify, paying listeners, and paying people per-stream rates when they sign up other listeners and artists. Our hope is that the incentives maximize the number of streams and thus, number of trees being planted.”

Unlike Spotify, artists get paid one cent per stream which is twice more than what Spotify pays. The best advantage is that it pays you in cryptocurrency. You can earn bitcoins in two ways, either you get it per stream or you can get more audience by using a link embedded with a special referral code that you can send to other listeners.

They took their inspiration from Ecosia,

We were inspired by Ecosia, a search engine that returns the same results as Google, but plants trees as people search,” Langdon said while describing Feedbands’ origins. “They’ve planted over 50 million trees, and they’re planting another one every second. Lots of people out there are actively choosing services that are having a regenerative impact on the earth. It’s a movement that is happening now at the intersection of technology and the environment. We’ve also been following Bitcoin for years and believe that it will likely revolutionize every aspect of the economy and redistribute wealth much in the same way the internet did over the last few decades.”

This is a great initiative and we hope it works well for Feedbands!

Be sure to try it out.