DATE:  18.04.2019, 17:30:17
TITLE: PR: MoneyToken Launches VIP Services for Big Crypto Investors
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-moneytoken-launches-vip-services-for-big-crypto-investors/

PR: MoneyToken Launches VIP Services for Big Crypto Investors

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Some great news today for all crypto-holders and investors: top crypto-lending platform MoneyToken has just released a unique VIP Customer Service Program for major asset holders and institutions.

MoneyToken’s VIP clients gain exclusive access to their own Personal Manager who will provide them with a 24/7 high-quality service and access to a list of benefits not found anywhere in the crypto lending world.

This service has been specifically created to cater for busy asset holders that don’t have time to constantly manage their assets alone. If the client is busy or doesn’t have time to effectively manage his/her assets, managers will take all asset management issues, saving your time and efforts.

With this, MoneyToken becomes the only crypto lending platform that offers a VIP level of customer service, at a global scale.

Presenting a whole new level of client service to the crypto lending market, MoneyToken makes VIP service free of charge for those clients, whose assets exceed $50,000 and making it more than affordable for smaller assets with $300 monthly fee.

Through the MoneyToken VIP Service, clients gain access to the following list of exclusive features:

1. Lending services

With access through your VIP account to MoneyToken lending services, you can borrow credit funds using your crypto assets as a collateral.

Or you can safely and securely lend your assets through MoneyToken and receive daily interest revenue by getting your investments to work for you.

2. Crypto assets and collateral trading

This is a pure crypto lending innovation: with full control over your assets, you are able to make collateral trading and account operations with the help of your Personal Manager at any time and from any location.

3. Short selling

For experienced traders who hold a VIP account with MoneyToken, use short selling to earn money on the volatile cryptocurrency market: if you foresee rises and falls in the market, you can consult your Personal Manager and look for ways to benefit from upcoming potential price changes.

4. Hedging

Hedging is a series of complex actions implemented by experienced traders and investors to lower the risks on their investments. You can convert your assets to fiat or stablecoins to protect them from sudden price falls. This includes futures, short selling and perpetual swaps – all of which can be effectively implemented with the assistance from your Personal Manager.

5. Private token sales

All VIP clients get immediate access to closed private token sales; it gives clients the ability to make smart investment decisions and benefit for the significant discounts that private sales can offer.

6. OTC services

A great option for VIP clients to quickly convert their crypto-assets into fiat currency with no additional hassle, fees or transaction limits.

Focus on what you need and leave your day-to-day asset management to the experts in the MoneyToken VIP Customer Service Team.

27/4 Portfolio Access

MoneyToken VIP clients have access to their personal portfolio anytime from any location and on any device, with individual 24/7 assistance by contacting your Personal Manager via phone call, email or Telegram.

B2B & B2C Management

For major crypto-asset organisations, MoneyToken offers the perfect B2B levels of client service. Large asset holders require an individual approach that meets various business demands and that provides a fast, professional assistance.

At the same time, the MoneyToken VIP Customer Service account works for the individual asset holder, meeting your individual demands; you can take a vacation or throw yourself into your work, leaving asset management tasks to our VIP Customer Service Team to complete on your behalf.

A VIP-level of Customer Service for serious asset holders and a new experience in the cryptocurrency. For more information, go to MoneyToken website.

Contact Email Address

h.black@iconic.info

Supporting Link

https://www.google.com/url?q=http://moneytoken.com/?utm_source%3DBitcoin.com%26utm_medium%3Darticle%26utm_campaign%3Dvip&sa=D&ust=1555595272524000&usg=AFQjCNF7Tv8MbK18FE8S5zPWXAn5vPTD_w

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.