DATE:  21.11.2019, 08:50:40
TITLE: Here Are Some Fun Things to Do With Bitcoin Cash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/here-are-some-fun-things-to-do-with-bitcoin-cash/

Here Are Some Fun Things to Do With Bitcoin Cash

The best use for any currency would be to spend it on things you need or even better, enjoy. And spending has to be easy and inexpensive too. Bitcoin cash has these characteristics and brings them to the digital money world. They have been acknowledged by crypto users who appreciate fast and low cost transactions. There’s a bunch of interesting things you can do with bitcoin cash today.

Also read: These Debit Cards Will Help You Spend Your BCH Anywhere

Camping at Norway’s ‘Private City’

You can, of course, travel the world with bitcoin cash and we have previously turned your attention to some attractive destinations you’d enjoy. Like Slovenia, for example, where you can pretty much get by entirely on BCH thanks to a payments platform called Gocrypto. Hundreds of retail locations in the small European country, which literary looks just like a postcard, now accept bitcoin cash through the service offered by the payment processor Eligma. And to get there, arrange your accommodation and book a car rental, you have an ever-expanding list of options.

But if you’d like to do something more special, say a trip that’s not offered by travel agencies, there’s another idea for a vacation we haven’t mentioned yet. Liberstad, a self-proclaimed ‘private city’ established by two local entrepreneurs, is inviting libertarians and investors to a beautiful part of the Nordic country. They can purchase land plots there and take part in the experimental project that promises “a little piece of freedom,” but the area is also becoming a tourist attraction and it’s one that welcomes BCH payments.

In the beautiful surroundings of the Norwegian forest, Liberstad’s team is now building a camping resort and a cabin town. The site will accommodate campers in caravans, mobile homes and tents, but visitors will also be able to rent cabins and apartments. And while some caravans can already be seen on Liberstad’s Instagram, a kiosk, a grocery store, bars and restaurants, event arenas, and playgrounds will also be constructed in the future to provide a wide range of services and facilitate recreational activities for both children and their parents.

‘It’s Not a Costume, It’s a Lifestyle’

Scandinavia is a pretty cold place in the winter and you might need one of the Griz Coats sold by the San Francisco-based company Buffoonery Factory. “Yes, we sell faux fur coats that look like bears. Feel free to call them bear coats, bear suits, or bear jackets, but just don’t call them bear costumes,” their website pleads. Unfortunately, “we’re actually now sold out of Grizzly Bear Coats because a bunch of trick-or-treaters didn’t read that passage about it being a non-costume and went ahead and bought them for Halloween anyway,” the project admits. But there’s a waitlist for the next batch you can sign up for. Or, if you are in an urgent need of one, you can “consider buying a Polar Bear Coat and rubbing it in a bunch of dirt.” The Grizcoat.com online store takes crypto, including bitcoin cash.

If you are a creative and entrepreneurial person, like the Hans and Karl Reichstetter brothers who created Griz Coat, there are many ways to earn BCH. Cryptartica offers you an opportunity to do exactly that. You can sign up and learn more about it but in short, it’s a print-on-demand platform that lets you create and sell your own customized merchandise to a targeted audience at no upfront cost. And, of course, you can make some electronic cash in the form of BCH. Simply upload your design and place it on a product like a t-shirt or a coffee mug, publish it in the Cryptartica online store to start selling it and you are all set to begin earning a sales commission with the platform taking care of the rest.

Candy and Other Delights

If you’ve tucked some bitcoin cash aside and you are willing to spend it on bringing more of your friends and colleagues into the crypto space, you can also buy one of those Crypto Candy dispensers offered by Iozeta. Set it up in your home or office as a fun way to introduce your friends and family to the fascinating world of cryptocurrency. Once the device detects a new transfer to a specified BCH address, it will activate a payment received light and a motion sensor, allowing for candy to be dispensed. The Crypto Candy device easily connects to the internet via wi-fi. It’s a lot of fun to watch someone’s reaction when they get a handful of M&Ms mere seconds after a simple bitcoin cash transaction.

Making someone you like or love happy is a great reward. And there are myriad ways to achieve that with bitcoin cash right now. You might not be aware, but you can buy a ton of gift cards with BCH for major retailers in two dozen categories. From the Home Depot to Macy’s, Domino’s to Dunkin Donuts, even Uber, you can have them all with bitcoin cash and it only takes a few seconds. Get them for yourself or send them to a friend or relative for Christmas. The good will gesture will cost you less than a penny in transaction fees.

What other fun things can you do with bitcoin cash? Share your suggestions in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Liberstad, Griz Coats, Cryptartica.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The Local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.