DATE:  04.04.2020, 14:11:30
TITLE: Bitcoin Boost Foreshadowed by Stablecoin Supply Ratios
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/bitcoin-boost-foreshadowed-by-stablecoin-supply-ratios/

According to data from the on-chain market analysis group Glassnode, the current Stablecoin Supply Ratio has reached an all-time low. Conversely, the USDT balances on exchanges are at an all-time high, which could create a perfect storm for a barrage of Bitcoin BUY NOW buying.

Glassnode outlines the Stablecoin Supply Ratio (SSR) as a metric that defines a stablecoins’ supply ready to purchase Bitcoin, and thus drive the price of the major cryptocurrency up.

For example, if the Bitcoin market is seen as a ‘closed system’ with a fixed supply of stablecoins. When the price of Bitcoin is low and a stablecoin’s supply is able to buy a larger portion of the circulating Bitcoin supply, it has a high buying power.

The graph below from Glassnode not only shows the SSR at extremely low levels, but it also shows that there are huge amounts of stablecoins on exchanges, poised to be used for potential Bitcoin purchasing.

Stablecoin Stablecoins are a class of cryptocurrency that aims to provide price stability. A perceived drawback of cryptocurrency is price volatility.... More Supply Ratio (SSR) is near its ATL. Low SSR means the current stablecoin supply has strong buying power to purchase $BTC and push the price up.$USDT (ERC20 BUY NOW) exchange balances at an ATH indicates that those coins are waiting on the sidelines.https://t.co/r1Re9UoVNv pic.twitter.com/I5ZFnScnLX — glassnode (@glassnode) April 1, 2020

Stablecoins Gain a New Respect

Amid the ongoing COVID-19 induced market panic in traditional and cryptocurrency markets, there has been one entity that has fared well. Stablecoins have had their value justified, as their lack of volatility We can describe volatility as how much the value of an asset changes over a given time. A volatility index... More caused them to rise in prominence in the cryptocurrency markets.

In fact, some stablecoin producers have even gone as far as to mint new coins at this time to add to the overall market cap of the crypto industry — a bit like the Federal Reserve’s recent money printing. Tether BUY NOW (USDT) has even breached the $6 billion mark of minted USDT coins.

Back to Bitcoin Before the Halving

Having suffered a dramatic drop in price, there would have likely been a mass evacuation out of volatile cryptocurrencies into more stable options, which in turn might have been the boost in demand that led to increased supply.

However, with the markets now calming down, and seemingly poised to grow once again, a perfect storm may be brewing for a rush back to Bitcoin from stablecoins.

Bitcoin’s mining reward halving may also be a factor to consider when noting the Stablecoin Supply Ratio in comparison with the all-time high of USDT on exchanges.

While the markets have been struck by this unprecedented collapse, there are still many who feel that the Bitcoin reward halving will lead to renewed positive price action for Bitcoin. In fact, some are denouncing the current economic stimulus policies and putting forward Bitcoin as a way to ‘opt-out.’

My hope after this crisis is that more people recognize central bank monetary policy for the evil that it is. It's never neutral, it favors one group over another and causes huge societal problems. Once they recognize that, it's a short step to opt out with #Bitcoin — Jimmy Song (송재준) (@jimmysong) March 31, 2020

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.