DATE:  04.04.2020, 14:24:37
TITLE: CFTC requests Standard after the Bitcoin Ponzi operator is not found for $ 147 million
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/cftc-requests-standard-after-the-bitcoin-ponzi-operator-is-not-found-for-147-million/

[ad_1]



The United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) has requested that the alleged founder of the $ 147 million Ponzi program Control-Finance is declared in arrears.

On April 3, the CFTC filed a default decision after alleged control finance founder and director Benjamin Reynolds failed to respond to the regulator's complaint.

CFTC cannot find Reynolds after 10 months

The CFTC's complaint was filed in June 2019, claiming that Reynolds had abused at least 22,858 BTC from more than 1,000 customers as of May 1, 2017.

In January 2020, the SEC requested additional time to locate Reynolds as part of an ongoing investigation in South Korea.

In July 2019, the regulator had tried to serve Reynolds at two addresses associated with the director of the system, and later learned from control finance investors that the accused may be in Korea.

The CFTC also submitted a voluntary termination without prejudice to Control Finance.

The Ponzi program eliminates $ 147 million

The CFTC's complaint alleges that Control-Finance claimed to divert client funds into its experienced employees 'trading operations, while new depositors' funds were diverted to the system's previous investors to create the illusion of profits and build hype.

The company built a pyramid scheme around an alleged affiliate program that was advertised on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube. In September 2017, Control-Finance removed its website, stopped paying partners, and deleted advertising content from social media.

While claims that customer funds would be returned in the next two months, the couple liquidated the 22,858 BTC that they owned for around $ 147 million.

Control-Finance tried to launder the funds through thousands of transactions, and the BTC eventually got to wallets that were kept at the Canadian crypto exchange CoinPayments.