DATE:  04.04.2020, 14:34:10
TITLE: Coronavirus Tips: Tips to stay safe & trade bitcoin!
URL:   https://coinnounce.com/coronavirus-tips-tips-to-stay-safe-trade-bitcoin/

Coronavirus Tips: COVID-19 has become a nightmare for humans. More than a million people are infected, and around 11,000 have died all across the globe.

People are scared, and almost half of the world is quarantined.

The government of several countries, along with the World Health Organization (WHO), is promoting social distancing to cease this virus spread.

Ways to deal with the panic of this pandemic!

All you need right now is to stay calm and safe in your house. The imposition of Lockdowns is just for your safety. You need to relax and have patience until things are in the right place.

Coronavirus Tips: Some strict precautions you must follow

Stay home – exposing yourself to the outside world increases your chance of getting infected. Practice Social Distancing – Maintain a distance of at least 6 feet from each other to avoid infection. Wash your hands properly, and more often – WHO has released a – WHO has released a step-wise tutorial of how you should wash your hands. Cover your mouth and hands while going out in public to avoid the infection. If you have had any recent rodent contact, you must contact the doctors and get yourself examined.

Besides these precautions, there is a long list of Do’s and Dont’s that you must keep in mind to remain safe.

What should you DO?

Wash your hands with an alcohol-based sanitizer for at least 20 seconds. Keep your sanitizer handy and use it before and after any physical contact. Stay distanced from the unwell. Sanitize your house correctly. Avoid crowded places.

What mustn’t you DO?

Gather in public places or any social gatherings Avoiding the rules of government and breaking the lockdowns. Believe in any news without knowing its source. Avoid consulting a doctor if you have symptoms.

We are in this together. The situation will be under control very soon till then you must take care of yourself and your family.

Stay safe, stay home, stay alert and keep investing in Bitcoins (of course, only after doing your own due diligence)!

Read the latest bitcoin news on Coinnounce.