DATE:  04.04.2020, 10:00:12
TITLE: Craig Wright Claims Satoshi NEVER Posted on Bitcointalk
URL:   https://www.thecoinrepublic.com/2020/04/04/craig-wright-claims-satoshi-never-posted-on-bitcointalk/

Craig Steven Wright suggested the posts made by the alleged founder of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto in Bitcointalk.org was never really made by him.

The scientist added that the Wayback Machine was not perfect and that the platform started to look familiar shortly after its last domain check in 2011.

He also expressed his views on Wikileaks and his dislikes on the objectives of the same.

A recent article from the official website of the Australian Computer Scientist, Craig Steven Wright suggested the posts made by the alleged founder of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto in Bitcointalk.org was never really made by him. Satoshi added that his final posts link to a domain which does not exist.

He commented that the posts were never linked to the creator of Bitcoin. He claimed that the original forum was created as a sub site of the bitcoin.org website. It only became a domain afterwards.

Advertisement



Craig Wright added that the Wayback Machine was not perfect and that the platform started to look familiar shortly after its last domain check in 2011. He stated that , if observed after proper research, bitcoin.org had a forum linked to SourceForge that ran within the system not on a separate server outside of bitcoin.org. He also underlined the ignorance of many on this matter , who apparently thinks that such posts were made by him.

He continued his remarks by claiming that the inventor, in fact, stopped posting even before Bitcointalk was created , based on the domain information available .The database was taken across in part and subsequently, a new user signed up on 5th of May 2011and sorted out things eventually. The person , as claimed by him, was known to be called Gregory Maxwell. He further suggested that Martti along with a few others migrated to the web pages .

Satoshi’s Posts On Bitcointalk Were Modified

He alleged that his posts were modified according to the wishes of those who controlled the database, a statement made on the basis of a couple of posts that were altered from the original. However, he remarked that such changes were minor and thus difficult to notice and that people who are behind such alterations implement the same believing that the same would go unnoticed if they are minor. He also recalled the circumstance in which he had to leave the social platform and what would have eventually happened if he had remained.

The founder briefed the methodology of the migration through several steps which were detailed as follows:

Firstly transferred from ( https://web.archive.org/web/20110401171747/http://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php ) to a GitHub repository ( https://web.archive.org/web/20110923151638/http://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php ) Then moved to a completely new server ( https://web.archive.org/web/20110713083033/http://forum.bitcoin.org/ ) And finally the server was replicated on Bitcointalk.

He once again stressed the lack of any obstructions that restricts the administrators of the platform from posting on behalf of Satoshi. Adding on to that ,he claimed that Robots.txt and other controls allows an individual to stop certain aspects of the website being archived and to alter what is put onto the Wayback Machine.

He further went on to quote a time reference which was the result of a lack of preference of his version of Bitcoin. Furthermore he emphasized on the need to investigate such changes and unauthorized modifications by many. Only a few made detailed observations to find the true source of such posts. He also expressed his views on Wikileaks and his dislikes on the objectives of the same.

An evidence trail

He concluded his comment by asserting that Bitcoin never had any ill intentions. He pitied the way in which the platform was used to execute activities like drug trafficking and Silk Road aiding. However he averred and expressed his opinion of the potential of the platform to be utilized as piece of traceable evidence to counter attack those who misuse the platform.