DATE:  04.04.2020, 17:16:30
TITLE: “Essential” Manchester Crypto Vending Machine Moves to Bedford Due to Restaurant Crackdown
URL:   https://freekeene.com/2020/04/04/essential-manchester-crypto-vending-machine-moves-to-bedford-due-to-restaurant-crackdown/

This week we got the bad news that Murphy’s Taproom in Manchester is closed until further notice due to “HIS EXCELLENCY” Chris Sununu’s “orders” destroying the freedom to run a business in New Hampshire. They had tried to stay open for take-out, but word on the street is that there’s virtually no one in downtown Manchester patronizing the various Elm St. restaurants. This is likely due to people conserving their resources and eating at home instead of buying take-out. However, Murphy’s Taproom’s Bedford location is still doing business, so this week we moved Manchester’s original Cryptocurrency Vending Machine to Bedford

The CVM is located in the basement, where buyers will have far more privacy than they did previously in Downtown Manchester. Murphy’s Taproom in Bedford is at 393 NH-101 and is open seven-days-a-week from 12p-8p for takeout, delivery, and the Cryptocurrency Vending Machine, all of which are “essential” services.

While every business is “essential” to the well being of its owners and employees, the people calling themselves the “State of New Hampshire” have decided they are going to tell people who can be open and under what circumstances. Rather than letting the market of free people decide, the bureaucrats who are known for being dishonest and violent, will decide. In “emergency order 17“, Sununu, who – no kidding – is referred to as “HIS EXCELLENCY”, orders all businesses who are not “essential” to close. Those deemed essential are ordered to implement so-called “social distancing” on their premises. The order expires on May 4th. So, it will be at least another month of economic devastation to New Hampshire business. From this attack on our freedom, many businesses will not reopen.

Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety.

-Benjamin Franklin

All of this over a mere virus. People have never freaked out over a virus before, and there have been many over time. For whatever reason, the authoritarians decided this was the time to roll out insane, Draconian restrictions. This crackdown is fear-based attack on our liberties in the name of safety. A certain founding father had something to say about that:

As the federal gang is planning to hand out 2.2 trillion in freshly printed dollars, it would be wise to consider turning dollars into cryptocurrency or precious metals as the inflating of the currency isn’t going to end with the 2.2 trillion. It’s just getting started.

Thankfully the Shire Free Church operates the most affordable Cryptocurrency Vending Machines in all of the region. Currently the CVMs offer the original Bitcoin (BTC) and privacy coin Monero (XMR). In addition to the one at Murphy’s in Bedford, there are machines are located in Keene at the Thirsty Owl bar across from Keene State College at 141 Winchester St. and also the Bitcoin Embassy NH at 661 Marlboro St. Thirsty Owl is open seven days a week, though you may want to call first to make sure they are open. The Bitcoin Embassy is open by appointment and regular trusted customers can be let in remotely. Contact information for each business is located here.