DATE:  04.04.2020, 21:15:47
TITLE: Freebitco.in Gaming Site Launches Covid-19 Relief Fund - Donating 20% House Edge to Healthcare Efforts
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/freebitco-in-gaming-launches-covid-19-relief-fund/

Freebitco.in Gaming Site Launches Covid-19 Relief Fund - Donating 20% House Edge to Healthcare Efforts

The owners of the website Freebitco.in have announced a coronavirus relief fund following the myriad of other crypto companies donating funds to help fight the covid-19 pandemic. Freebitco.in is an extremely popular gaming website that saw more than 40 million visitors last month in web traffic and the site ranks #2,379 globally according to Alexa ratings. The website is donating 20% of the house edge to an organization that will be coordinating with public health authorities in order to provide protective equipment.

Also read: Coronavirus Relief: Cryptocurrency Aid Programs Launched to Combat Covid-19 Outbreak

Freebitco.in Launches Coronavirus Relief Effort

The coronavirus outbreak has massively disrupted the world’s economy and a lot of people are in need of food and healthcare resources. This has caused a lot of firms in the private sector to start providing much-needed supplies and relief funds to those affected by the financial calamity. News.Bitcoin.com recently reported on a slew of crypto companies donating funds to coronavirus relief efforts during the last few weeks. For instance, the organization Binance Charity designated $5 million toward a covid-19 aid program.

Now the team behind the popular crypto gaming web portal Freebitco.in has initiated a fund to assist those in need during these times of stress. Freebitco.in is a well known gambling site that was launched in 2013 and the website gets around 40-46 million visitors per month. The gaming web portal’s fundraiser says the site will donate 20% of the house edge toward covid-19 relief efforts. Freebitco.in’s covid-19 fundraiser announcement states:

The proceeds from this fundraiser will be donated to Direct Relief, an organization that is coordinating with public health authorities, nonprofit organizations and businesses in the U.S. to provide personal protective equipment and other items to health workers responding to coronavirus (covid-19). Please join us to help the masked superheroes on the front lines that are risking their health to keep us safe.

Bitcoin Cash Price Prediction Bet and the Multiply Game

So far, statistics on April 4 show there are 1.1 million coronavirus cases worldwide and 62,735 people have died from the pandemic. Freebitco.in has a lot of visitors playing games like “free bitcoins every hour,” “hi-lo game,” “the wagering contest,” “dice game,” and “peer-to-peer event prediction.” Freebitco.in recently added a “bitcoin cash price prediction” bet to the platform which allows players to wager on the future price of BCH. People wagering on the “multiply BTC game between 8 to 11 UTC on Sunday, April 5 will see 20% of house edge revenue contributed during the donation window to the coronavirus relief fund.”

Freebitco.in is very web prominent as Alexa ratings note the site ranks #2,379 worldwide and the web portal is also very well known in Russia. Russian traffic statistics show that Freebitco.in ranks #692 in the country. With 1.72 million page visits a day, the site could generate a notable amount of funds for coronavirus relief. There is a shortage of medical supplies, masks, and ventilators worldwide, and the private sector is dedicating lots of energy to sending much-needed supplies to hospitals and makeshift ICUs. The private sector and a slew of crypto companies dedicating time and efforts toward helping those in need clearly shows there’s still a lot of good moral fiber in the world of business and finance.

What do you think about Freebitco.in’s coronavirus relief effort? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons, Freebitco.in

Use Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash to play online casino games here.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.