DATE:  04.04.2020, 08:46:04
TITLE: Ripple XRP Price Prediction – Could XRP Be Preparing For A Major Price Rally? Here’s What Analysts Have To Say – April 4th, 2020
URL:   https://smartereum.com/187311/ripple-xrp-price-prediction-could-xrp-be-preparing-for-a-major-price-rally-heres-what-analysts-have-to-say-april-4th-2020/

2 Top Ripple XRP Analysts Predict An Upcoming Surge In The Price of XRP

Ripple XRP Enjoyed Minor Bull Run Yesterday

Ripple News Today – It’s true that Ripple XRP isn’t the largest cryptocurrency per market capitalization. However, it has gotten a lot of attention from members of the cryptocurrency community because of its use cases in the real world. Members of the Ripple XRP community don’t just buy the Ripple coin because they want to make a quick profit, they believe in the future that Ripple has promised to bring to the global financial institution. Unfortunately, the price of the Ripple XRP token hasn’t done much to encourage traders who are interested in short-term profits. To be fair, the entire cryptocurrency market, including Bitcoin, took a hit these last few weeks. The good news is that there is light at the end of the tunnel. Some believe that XRP is preparing for a significant price rally.

Ripple Price Prediction 2020 – XRP is Preparing to Rise Against The USD

Two major Ripple XRP price analysts recently said that the price of XRP may be on the verge of another price rally against the USD. A few days ago, one of the analysts, Luke Martin, during an interview on CNN, said that the price of XRP is going to appreciate soon. He said that when the rally starts, the price of XRP will surge at a faster pace than the price of BTC. This doesn’t mean that it will move higher than Bitcoin; it simply means that it will move faster.

XRP (XRP) Price Today – XRP / USD

# Name Price 24H % 3 $0.185 -0.64%

Another prominent analyst, Michael Van De Poppe, said that the technical analysis has revealed that the XRP to BTC trading pair had held key support that will most likely lead to a 20% rise in the next few months. He said that the rally might be delayed by the 3100 Satoshi level. This rise against the price of BTC will be a good deal for the Ripple community and the rest of the cryptocurrency market.

Ripple XRP Price Analysis – Ripple XRP Managed To Gain A Little Ground Yesterday

Yesterday, along with the rest of the cryptocurrency market, the price of XRP posted gains against the USD. The rally rook the price of XRP above the $0.18 level but it faced resistance that pushed the bulls back. At the time of writing, the price of Ripple XRP was $0.179763. It is down by 0.01% against the USD and up by 1.81% against the price of Bitcoin BTC. The trading volume over the last 24 hours is $2,068,747,855 and the market capitalization is $7,898,019,187.