DATE:  04.04.2020, 16:09:50
TITLE: What mainstream financial advisors are saying about Bitcoin
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/what-mainstream-financial-advisors-are-saying-about-bitcoin/

[ad_1]



During the current decline in the mainstream market, investment advisers are giving a variety of advice, some of which even mention Bitcoin (BTC).

The co-founder and partner of Morgan Creek Digital, Anthony Pompliano or “Pomp”, tweeted a request to his followers and asked what their financial advisors had recently told them about the current downturn in the market.

Some advisors say buy during the market downturn

In the middle of corona virus concerns and oil trading EventsThe traditional markets have suffered a blow in the past few weeks. According to a centuries-old saying by investment legend Baron Rothschild, investors should try to buy during the down markets.

"Buy when there is blood on the streets," said Rothschild. Some financial advisors are said to recommend just that. Anthony Pompliano has posted a number of these shared comments on Twitter, with the sources remaining anonymous.

"It's time to buy cheap stocks," said an expert said. "Wait until everyone says they sold and then bought," said another saidand added, "Warren buffet style, buy when there is fear."

Alternatively, some experts recommend more stability in hedge investments. "Keep things that have stability and dividends (utilities), hedge yourself with precious metals, switch to cash, and wait for future purchases," said one advisor explained.

Other advisors recommended Bitcoin and crypto

Bitcoin demonstrated its ties to traditional markets in 2020 and also suffered from falling prices. However, unlike its previous status as a volatile drug purchase asset, Bitcoin has found its way into the recommended section of the financial advisor's phrase.

"He told me to get out of stocks, but he was monitoring Bitcoin and telling me that there was a big divergence in the trend from global indices," said one customer about his advisor. "He watches and tells me when to buy." Added the customer.

"Sell everything" Another According to reports, he said, "Buy BTC and gold."

"Bitcoin is a binary game, it will be either a 1 or a 0," said another adviser saidGive Bitcoin a pass / fail rating. "Blockchain may be promising, but it's far too early to know," he added.

Although the comments on Bitcoin have been mixed, the growing interest among financial advisors shows that crypto is known as an asset class. This could indicate that the industry is developing in public.

Cointelegraph asked Pomp for a comment, but received no response at the time of printing. This article will be updated accordingly if a response is received.