DATE:  01.08.2019, 07:45:41
TITLE: Pre-Register for Bitcoin.com's New Crypto Exchange to Win Bitcoin Cash Prizes
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pre-register-for-bitcoin-coms-new-crypto-exchange-to-win-bitcoin-cash-prizes/

Pre-Register for Bitcoin.com's New Crypto Exchange to Win Bitcoin Cash Prizes

Over the last few years, Bitcoin.com has striven to make digital assets more accessible to everyone in the world. In June we launched our peer-to-peer bitcoin cash marketplace Local.Bitcoin.com and this September we’re launching our very own exchange with over 50 trading pairs. Today we’re starting pre-registrations so people can get a head start before we open, and Bitcoin.com is giving away rewards to early registrants.

Also Read: Exploring the SLP Token Universe Built on the Bitcoin Cash Chain

Bitcoin.com Is Launching an Exchange With 50+ Trading Pairs

In a month’s time Bitcoin.com plans to launch Exchange.Bitcoin.com, a fast and secure cryptocurrency trading platform meant to satisfy digital currency veterans and newcomers alike. The Bitcoin.com Exchange will launch on Sept. 2, 2019, and our developers here have been working hard behind the scenes to wrap up the site’s construction. Leading up to launch day we’re allowing pre-registration so early birds can sign up for exclusive rewards. The Bitcoin.com Exchange will offer traders a reliable and professional trading environment that makes swapping cryptocurrencies a breeze. Our exchange outpaces the competition by providing a robust matching engine, professional charts, and plenty of liquidity for a multitude of digital assets.

With over 50 trading pairs, the Bitcoin.com Exchange will feature bitcoin cash base pairs alongside other denominated pairs from well known assets like tether (USDT), ethereum (ETH), and bitcoin core (BTC). While our company thinks the Bitcoin Cash (BCH) network will be adopted by the masses worldwide, we also think it’s important to promote free markets and choice. The 50+ trading pairs will be popular digital assets that will allow you to choose between a wide variety of coins that offer different functionalities and have interesting use-cases. The slew of cryptocurrencies supported next month is just the start, as we plan to add many more digital assets to the Bitcoin.com Exchange and Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) tokens as well. We want you to have access to the digitized assets and unique SLP tokens built today that exist on top of the Bitcoin Cash blockchain.

Pre-registered users who sign up before launch will be entered to win a variety of rewards. If you pre-register you will be exclusively added to the prize pool draw, which features prizes worth more than $10,000. You will get VIP trading access which adds a 25% discount on all trading fees for three months with no trade limits. Early-bird signups will be included in our priority mailing service. So the minute the Bitcoin.com Exchange trading engines fire up, you’ll be the first to know. Every week from now until the September 2 exchange launch, Bitcoin.com will announce a new prize from the pool. For starters were giving away $5,000 worth of bitcoin cash to a lucky pre-registered account and $1,000 prizes to an additional five accounts.

Making Digital Currencies More Accessible to Everyone

The passionate team behind Bitcoin.com is thrilled to launch a secure and fast-paced trading platform that allows individuals and businesses to obtain digital assets at any time. Bitcoin.com’s Roger Ver, one of the earliest investors in the cryptocurrency industry is thrilled to provide the community with a powerful trading platform. During the announcement, Ver highlighted that at Bitcoin.com we’re always looking to make Bitcoin Cash accessible to everyone and he recalled the excitement when we launched the peer-to-peer marketplace Local.Bitcoin.com in June. The BCH marketplace allows individuals from any country to swap Bitcoin Cash privately at any time.

“Now, with Exchange.Bitcoin.com, you can diversify your cryptocurrency portfolio, too,” Ver emphasized. The Bitcoin.com executive also mentioned how excited he was to see SLP tokens added to the trading platform.

“We’re on the cusp of something very exciting with SLP tokens — It’s the beginning of a world where we can tokenize anything and, as people realize the potential this holds, they’re going to start demanding a place to trade their tokens,” Ver remarked. “That’s why we’ll be supporting SLP tokens on Exchange.Bitcoin.com,” Ver added:

Bitcoin.com has been around the space for many years now and we hope that the quality products we’ve already built — our wallet, our merchant app, and so on—help to reassure users and remind them that we’re an established brand they can trust.

Digital currencies have made their mark after ten years as the space has matured greatly and we look forward to cushioning the continued growth. At Bitcoin.com we’re proud to offer the quality resources, tools, and services that help people develop a relationship with this innovative technology. Our new Bitcoin.com Exchange will be no different and we look forward to providing the very best when it comes to world-class digital currency trading. Pre-register today at Exchange.Bitcoin.com and you’ll be automatically entered to win some of the top prizes we’re giving away before the launch.

What do you think about Exchange.Bitcoin.com? Will you be using this new, fast and reliable exchange? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Bitcoin.com

Are you feeling lucky? Visit our official Bitcoin casino where you can play BCH slots, BCH poker, and many more BCH games. Every game has a progressive Bitcoin Cash jackpot to be won!