DATE:  16.01.2019, 11:31:00
TITLE: Bitcoin KIDNAP warning: Cybercrime investigator calls on fast-track of new regulation
URL:   https://www.express.co.uk/finance/city/1073017/Bitcoin-kidnapping-warning-BTC-cryptocurrency-regulation-crypto-coin-crv

Bitcoin: A string of kidnappings where gangs have demanded ransoms in bitcoin have taken place

David Carlisle, a prominent cryptocurrency intelligence agent, says criminal gangs are specifically targeting countries with little or no jurisdiction over bitcoin and the hundreds of smaller so-called ‘altcoins’. Only recently, two high profile kidnappings saw gangs attempt to extort more than £8m from the families of high profile victims. In Costa Rica, the owner of the 5dimes gambling site – William Sean Creighton Kopko – was abducted at the end of last year before a gang demanded almost a million dollars’ worth of bitcoin. Mr Kopko’s family eventually paid the ransom, but Mr Kopko himself is still missing despite 12 people being arrested for their alleged involvement in the kidnap.

Meanwhile, in Norway, the wife of billionaire Tom Hagen is currently in the hands of kidnappers demanding €9m in privacy coin Monero. Anne-Elisabeth Falkevik Hagen was abducted from the family home on the outskirts of Oslo on October 31. Norwegian police had kept the incident under wraps until just a few days ago in the hope that fresh evidence would come to light. However, the police commander leading the investigation decided to go public, revealing that he had urged the family not to pay up.

There have been both ransom demands and serious threats Tommy Broske

Inspector Tommy Broske told Express.co.uk: “There have been both ransom demands and serious threats. “Police have so far advised the family not to meet the requirements.” Both high profile kidnappings have led David Carlisle – a former US Treasury advisor on terrorist financing, financial crime, and crypto related activity – to lobby governments throughout the world to rapidly usher in regulation. He said: “Cryptocurrency enables certain types of crime effectively – and others less so. “One of the things about extortion with cryptocurrency that is convenient for kidnappers is that all they have to do is set up a digital wallet. “We need to create an environment of hostility towards the criminal elements.” While many countries are embracing regulation of cryptocurrency and drafting up policies that will facilitate more authoritative control over wallets, exchanges and even taxation, there are many nations actively ignoring such issues. This, says Mr Carlisle – currently Head of Community at cryptocurrency intelligence agency Elliptic - is leaving the door wide open to crime.

Bitcoin: Criminal gangs are targeting countries with little or no jurisdiction over BTC