DATE:  16.01.2019, 17:20:00
TITLE: NASA embraces bitcoin BLOCKCHAIN tech to battle aerospace cyber attacks
URL:   https://www.express.co.uk/news/science/1073236/nasa-bitcoin-blockchain-crypto-cyber-attacks

Blockchain technology is the backbone of the burgeoning bitcoin (BTC) and cryptocurrency industry. Blockchain is a revolutionary way to hold massive amounts of data – because they are held in multiple locations, the records it keeps are truly public and easily verifiable. And now unanticipated applications for the cutting-edge tech are being explored.

US space agency NASA are now considering the benefits of blockchain technology.

The system proposes to leverage an industrial-strength open-source enterprise-blockchain framework NASA engineer Ronald Reisman

NASA engineer Ronald Reisman believes blockchain-based communication systems could be key in stopping spoofing and denial of service attacks on the American air-traffic control system. The eagerly-anticipated Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) system is supposed to go live in 2020, but Reisman believes the system is already at risk of cyber attack. ADS-B is a surveillance technology in which an aircraft determines its position via satellite navigation and enables it to be tracked. READ MORE: Bitcoin mining ‘uses DOUBLE the energy required to mine GOLD’

Blockchain: NASA is eyeing bitcoin blockchain technology

Blockchain: NASA is now considering the benefits of blockchain technology

However ADS-B does not secure aircrafts’ flight plans and positions, which presents a raft of problems. And Blockchain could be the solution, believes NASA engineer Reisman. NASA is reportedly preparing the use of an open-source permissioned blockchain framework to ADS-B’s vulnerabilities. A blockchain architecture could secure and improve the communication between authorised agents and minimising the risk of tech-savvy criminals gaining access easily. READ MORE: NASA plan to dig 10km hole in ALIEN LIFE search - REVEALED

Reisman’s proposal uses “certificate authority, smart contract support, and higher-bandwidth communication channels” to ensure comms between aircraft and agents such as air traffic control remains secure. NASA engineer Ronald Reisman said: “The system proposes to leverage an industrial-strength open-source enterprise-blockchain framework called Hyperledger Fabric to demonstrate potential solutions to vexing technical issues that threaten the adoption of ADS-B by Military, Corporate, and other aircraft operators who do not want their operations and movements discernible by the general public.” Hyperledger Fabric is a blockchain developed away from the fintech sector and designed for enterprise use. And although his approach “is not perfected” it is “based on available technology,” says the paper. READ MORE: Hunt for aliens ‘only just BEGINNING’ says top scientist

NASA: The US space agency is exploring blockchain tech

NASA: Blockchain is the backbone of the burgeoning bitcoin industry