DATE:  16.01.2019, 23:50:57
TITLE: Trezor and Gray Release Corazon Series 'Luxury' Hardware Wallets
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/trezor-and-gray-release-corazon-series-luxury-hardware-wallets/

Trezor and Gray Release Corazon Series 'Luxury' Hardware Wallets

On Jan. 16, hardware wallet manufacturer Satoshilabs, the creator of the Trezor line of cryptocurrency devices, announced its latest partnership with the mechanical artistry and design company Gray. The luxury designer is well known for its mobile collections like Zyra and Alter Ego and the two companies have now released a “luxury” aerospace-grade titanium hardware wallet series called Corazon.

Also Read: A Look at Some of the ‘Next Generation’ Bitcoin Mining Rigs Available Today

Corazon: ‘Luxury’ Titanium-Grade Hardware Wallets

The Singapore-based manufacturer that creates custom Apple and Android mobile phone cases, Gray International, has partnered with the cryptocurrency company Satoshilabs. On Wednesday, the two businesses revealed a luxury grade series of hardware wallets called Corazon. The new devices are CNC machined using aerospace grade titanium that can withstand far more damage than traditional plastic and aluminum devices. The Corazon wallets are based on the Trezor Core firmware used in the company’s Trezor model T series. Just like a model T, the unit comes with a USB connector (type C to type A) and two recovery seed cards. The new designer series Corazon model also serves as a password manager and a universal second-factor (U2F) token device as well.

The Corazon series is way more expensive than your average Nano or Trezor One, and almost three times the price of the Model T depending on which flavor of Corazon is chosen. The cheapest model is the basic gray colored titanium model for $696 per unit. The Corazon Stealth model ($996) is a limited edition piece with only 500 available and has a black physical vapor deposition (PVD) coating. The Corazon Gold version ($1,496) is also limited but to only 100 models and the device has a gold PVD coat instead of black.

“Each Corazon begins its life as a solid block of grade five aerospace titanium before being manufactured into its signature and attractive design,” explained Satoshilabs in an email to news.Bitcoin.com. “With special tamper-proof design, the device is impenetrable without compromising the external integrity — Audited by security researchers and verified by the stellar track record of Trezor, the Corazon’s technology is entirely open-source to be fully transparent, in line with Trezor security philosophy.”

Expensive But Limited

The new collaborative effort between Satoshilabs and Gray follows the recent Ledger Nano X launch on Jan. 6. The new model is similar to the old Nano’s case design but is bluetooth-enabled and can store up to 100 different digital assets. Gray explains on its website the Corazon release coincides with the 10th anniversary of Bitcoin’s creation. Each unit starts as a solid block of titanium and is then machined into a lightweight but strong hardware wallet. The limited edition models are finished to a degree “that is impossible to be replicated by hand” says Gray’s website. Cryptocurrency proponents can pre-order the Corazon models with either BTC or BCH via Bitpay, and the website takes traditional credit cards as well.

This is not the first time Trezor has released limited edition models, as the firm has released metal aluminum grade versions of their wallet in the past. Last December the firm sold metallic chrome-looking models for 600 euros and there were only 300 made. Some people will likely disregard the new Corazon series on account of the price while others may see the wallets as a collectible.

What do you think about the new Trezor Corazon series designed by the mechanical artistry and design company Gray International? Let us know what you think about these products in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the mentioned company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com and the author are not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article. This editorial is for informational purposes only.

Image credits: Trezor, Gray International, and Bitpay.

Need to calculate your bitcoin holdings? Check our tools section.