DATE:  11.04.2020, 16:22:20
TITLE: COVID-19 Lockdown To Be Extended Till April 30; PM Modi May Address Nation
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/covid-19-lockdown-to-be-extended-till-april-30-pm-modi-may-address-nation/84736/

Right now PM Narendra Modi had a gathering with the CMs through video convention the place they mentioned the lockdown extension. States like Punjab and Odisha have already prolonged the lockdown. Chief ministers of West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Bihar, Chhatisgarh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh requested for the extension of lockdown.

Now, reviews are surfacing that recommend that lockdown is prolonged until April 30 to curb the lethal coronavirus. PM Modi will shortly announce it however not at this time. Journalist Rajdeep Sardesai in his tweet wrote that “PM recommends three zones: pink, inexperienced and yellow for lockdown relying on the severity of virus unfold. Kerala mannequin could also be adopted by nation!”

As per Zee Information, on the assembly, PM Modi mentioned, “Most people of the nation understood this and stayed indoors and carried out their duties. All of us adopted this to save lots of the lives of our countrymen. When each individual within the nation will observe authorities and administration pointers our combat in opposition to the virus will likely be stronger.”

He additionally advised the CMs that he's out there anytime. “I'm all the time out there. Any chief minister can converse to me and provides options (on COVID-19) anytime. We must always stand collectively shoulder-to-shoulder,” mentioned PM Modi.

Effectively, we at the moment are ready for PM Modi’s official announcement.

The novel coronavirus outbreak noticed the biggest spike on Friday. India has been on a 21-day lockdown since March 25. Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned that lockdown can't be lifted throughout the nation at one go.

In the meantime, the COVID-19 circumstances are nearing to 8000, out of which the entire contaminated circumstances at the moment are 7875, amongst which 6833 are energetic circumstances, and 792 have recovered and the loss of life toll has gone to 250.

We are going to maintain you up to date on the identical, until then keep tuned to The Dwell Mirror.

Additionally Learn: COVID-19 Dwell Updates: Maharashtra’s Optimistic Circumstances Tally Rises To 1666