DATE:  11.04.2020, 12:27:14
TITLE: Earn Bitcoin and Litecoin worth $360 million by shopping online
URL:   https://www.crypto-news-flash.com/earn-bitcoin-and-litecoin-worth-360-million-by-shopping-online/

Litecoin foundation announces partnership with BitcoinRewards to allow users to earn rewards with Bitcoin and Litecoin by shopping online.

Users will have access to a $360 million reward and can earn a share by shopping at more than 1500 online stores.

The Litecoin Foundation announced its latest partnership with the Google Chrome extension and web platform, BitcoinRewards. The cooperation will allow users to access a reward of up to $360 million in Bitcoin and Litecoin. Users must only shop online at the more than 1,500 stores that can be accessed through join.BitcoinRewards.com.

Rewards with Bitcoin and Litecoin just for buying online

According to the release, BitcoinRewards has been working closely with Litecoin’s creator, Charlie Lee, and the Litecoin Foundation for several months to drive the adoption of Bitcoin and Litecoin. Users in the United States will be able to earn up to $2,000 per year just by using the referred platform.

The emergency caused by COVID-19 has impacted the cryptocurrency market and the world economy. Therefore, this is a good time for home shopping users to optimize their income. The Litecoin Foundation says:

There is no better time to shop online than now and earn free LTC and BTC given the current social and economic challenges facing society.

Litecoin Foundation Director Charlie Lee was enthusiastic about the cooperation. Lee stated:

We’re excited to see the team from BitcoinRewards enable Litecoin and share the Litecoin Foundation’s vision of global awareness, education and adoption. BitcoinRewards lowers the barriers to entry for both BTC and LTC by providing a solution where people can learn and earn at the same time.

To start earning BTC and LTC, users simply download the Google Chrome extension by visiting join.BitcoinRewards.com. When making purchases, users receive a non-invasive notification that they can click on. The user will then receive a pending reward notification via the extension and the user’s email. BitcoinReward founder and CEO Kahn Hood had this to say about the cooperation:

Existing BitcoinRewards members have traditionally enjoyed earning Bitcoin via the web platform, but the new Google Chrome extension removes additional steps, enabling online shopping enthusiasts to never miss an opportunity to earn Litecoin and Bitcoin again.

Litecoin’s price is $42.67, at the time the article was published, and has made a 1.08% loss in the last 24 hours.

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don’t miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?