DATE:  11.04.2020, 13:05:22
TITLE: The Duke And Duchess Of Sussex Harry And Meghan Used As Bait In A Bitcoin Scam
URL:   https://cryptopotato.com/the-duke-and-duchess-of-sussex-harry-and-meghan-used-as-bait-in-a-bitcoin-scam/

The list of famous individuals used in cryptocurrency-related scams grows with the Duke and Duchess of Sussex – Harry and Meghan. Scammers used their well-known names to dupe victims into investing in a suspicious auto-trading program called Bitcoin Evolution.

Fraudulent Ads With Harry And Meghan

After Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, and Richard Branson, now Harry and Meghan are the next famous people having their names used in cryptocurrency scams. According to a report, ads containing seemingly fake quotes from them were circulating the internet and appearing in phishing emails.

The perpetrators used their recent decision to step back as senior members of the Royal Family. However, in their scenario, Harry and Meghan would “work to become financially independent.”

“What’s made us successful is jumping into new opportunities quickly and without hesitation, and right now, our number one money-maker is a new cryptocurrency auto-trading program called Bitcoin Evolution. It’s the single biggest opportunity we have seen in our entire lifetimes to build a small fortune fast. We urge everyone to check this out before the banks shut it down.” – the ads read.

If the victim clicks on any of the numerous links in the phishing emails, he will go to the Bitcoin Evolution website. The “opportunity” gets even more suspicious from here, to say the least.

Firstly, it says that registration will soon close due to high demand, and there’s a clock counting down. Naturally, it’s a high-pressure sales ploy, as the clock is reset every five minutes and thirty seconds.

Next – the inevitable fake testimonials from people such as Mark K from Texas saying, “I just made my first $10k” in 47 days.

The website also provides no address, phone number, or any company registration details.

And The Cost For Becoming Rich?

There’s another powerful promise on the website – no fees or commission: “All of your money is 100% yours, and you are free to withdraw it at any time you choose without delay.”

And the price for becoming financially independent so rapidly is “just” $250 or around £200. This is a standard amount requested to invest so that potential victims are not scared.

The report also indicated that other trading platforms with the same interface are using the name of the popular survival instructor, adventurer, and TV presenter – Bear Grylls.

In any case, people should act with utmost caution whenever they stumble upon a similar “get rich fast” opportunity. They need to check thoroughly before deciding to invest any money.

Enjoy reading? Please share:

Binance Futures Limited Offer: Use this link to register & get 10% discount on fees (Exclusive to CryptoPotato).



Click here to start trading on BitMEX and receive 10% discount on fees for 6 months.



