DATE:  11.04.2020, 22:18:24
TITLE: Venezuela Exchange Users Now Send Bitcoin Without Internet
URL:   https://bitcoinik.com/venezuelan-users-now-send-bitcoin-without-internet/

Venezuelan crypto exchange Criptolago declared that it will inaugurate a script message-based payment system that functions the transactions in Venezuela’s oil-backed Petro (PTR) and additional cryptocurrencies.

The procedure may detect unique segments of Venezuela’s population to cryptocurrencies amid the country’s ongoing hyperinflation emergency. The significance of the Venezuelan bolivar fluctuating by 1.58% within the preceding 24 hours and approximately 2,500% within 12 months.

Criptolago unveils the SMS-based crypto transfer

April 6 tweet results, Criptolago reported that it formulated the service acknowledging the call from the country’s president for financial companies to formulate payment platforms correspond to the Venezuelan banking system that can refine Petro transfers:

“Following the guidelines of our president @NicolasMaduro and in favor of our #criptonation, with the new function of Payments for #SMS we have opened the possibility for all the Venezuelan people to carry out #Petro transactions in a very practical way.”

The SMS-based payments system refines offline transactions in all crypto assets backed on Criptolago, implication that Venezuelans can transfer Bitcoin (BTC), Litecoin (LTC), Dash (DASH), Venezuela bolivares and the proprietary token of the Venezuelan “investment crypto bank” Glufco without an internet connection.

Approximately 30% of Venezuela’s citizens incapable to access the internet, Criptolago’s SMS-based payments system enables new segments of the population to commit with cryptocurrencies. The service is solely convenient for registered users.

Venezuela is the prominent reference of proportion on other offline crypto payment platforms with the country embodying 95% of the transactions from May 2019 employing DashText.

Venezuelan Incapable to decide on the price of Petro,

Despite undertakings, Venezuela’s president and former-bus driver Nicolas Maduro to instruct a design of PTR as an exchange in the country, noticeable anxiety in the market makes the instrument contrary for use as of currency.

April 6 results in the local crypto news site Morocotacoin, PTR trading for $23 on Criptolago and $11.5 on AmberesCoin while official sources argued Petro’s price to be above $50.