DATE:  21.05.2019, 13:34:00
TITLE: Bitcoin price explained: How a single trade crashed the cryptocurrency market
URL:   https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/bitcoin-price-explained-usd-latest-value-market-today-a8921806.html

Even for something as notoriously volatile as bitcoin, the cryptocurrency's recent price fluctuations have been extraordinary.

Its value surged from $4,000 at the start of April to $8,000 by mid May, before yoyo-ing between $7,000 and $8,000 over the last few days.

Cryptocurrency experts have attempted to explain the rollercoaster market, citing a combination of recent good news in the crypto space and short term traders attempting to capitalise on uncertainty.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

But a recent crash that wiped $1,000 off bitcoin's value in less than an hour can seemingly be explained by a single trade.

On the morning of Friday, 17 May, the sale of 5,000 bitcoin on the Bitstamp exchange – worth around $40 million at the time of the trade – resulted in a flash crash that wiped more than $10 billion bitcoin's market capitalisation in just 20 minutes.

Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Show all 8 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters

Analysts say the huge impact of this trade illustrates the fundamental issues that still exist for the nascent commodity.

"The bitcoin price is a game for 'whales' – the largest traders – to wreck the smaller players," cryptocurrency author David Gerard wrote in a blogpost analysing the market dip.

"This was a huge dump... This keeps happening, and has done for the past few years – a pile of short or long positions on the price will be blown by someone manipulating the price.

Mr Gerard claims the cryptocurrency market is "rife with insider trading" and that a number of so-called whales "have colluded for years".

The borderless and semi-anonymous nature of bitcoin means it is difficult to police such instances of market manipulation, while the lack of regulation compared to other commodity markets mean a handful of bad actors are able to exploit it for financial gain.

The Bitstamp exchange launched an investigation into the trade within hours of the crash taking place, though few details were given.

"Our system behaved as designed, processing and fulfilling the client's order as it was received," the exchange tweeted.

"We closely examine every event that causes large-scale movement in our order book and have started an immediate case investigation."

Other cryptocurrency experts claim such market fluctuations should not detract from the underlying value of bitcoin as both an investment asset and a currency.

Ana Bencic, foudner of cryptocurrency firm NextHash, believes the price of bitcoin will continue to rise in the long-term, despite the recent crash.

"Bitcoin has been enjoying firmly positive market sentiment recently, so I am sure that the price will soon recover," she told The Independent.

"The ease of use, transparency and potential for rapid returns make cryptocurrency investment very attractive."

But according to Mr Gerard, it is only a matter of time before similar market manipulation takes place again.

"The market's structure is terrible, trading on the exchanges is thin, and all the incentives are still there," he wrote.

"Anyone who claims the bitcoin price is in any way organic, or follows real-world events, is simply talking nonsense. We've seen how it works, live in action, in front of us."