DATE:  19.03.2019, 06:55:13
TITLE: Real Estate Giant Holding Live Luxury Home Auction for Bitcoin
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/real-estate-giant-holding-live-luxury-home-auction-bitcoin/

Real Estate Giant Holding Live Luxury Home Auction for Bitcoin

A major Australian real estate group is holding a luxury home auction that can be paid for with two cryptocurrencies. There will be a live auctioneer who will call out bids in BTC. The property owner says he wants to keep as many coins as possible.

Also read: Crypto Enthusiasts Unite in 4 Indian Cities to Voice Regulatory Suggestions

Live Auction for Cryptocurrencies

One of Australia’s largest real estate groups, LJ Hooker, is preparing a live luxury real estate auction for cryptocurrencies with a live auctioneer. The company is working with James Pratt Auctions and blockchain company Nuyen, which will facilitate online bidding for the five-bedroom house in New South Wales, Australia. Micky media outlet reported Monday:

The auctioneer will call bids in cryptocurrency, with the price to be converted and displayed in AUD and USD on a live screen. Payments can be made in both bitcoin (BTC) and binance coin (BNB).

The owner of the property and president of Nuyen, Greg Costello, told news.Bitcoin.com that, in addition to the two cryptocurrencies, AUD will also be accepted.

According to Nuyen, the auction has attracted interested buyers from the U.S., Canada, China, and Australia, the publication detailed. Costello was quoted as saying: “We have already had parties register for the auction in less than 5 days of it being released … There has been a lot of international interest and publicity and I expect to see this grow and grow as the auction gets closer.”

Furthermore, he told the news outlet that he believes there will be more live auctions for cryptocurrencies in the future because international bidders can easily participate, elaborating:

All signs point to a borderless system where digital assets are traded for real assets.

Established in 1928, LJ Hooker claims to be “Australia’s best-known and most trusted real estate brand.” With offices in Australia, New Zealand, China, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Vanuatu, the group claims to manage the largest property portfolio in the region of approximately 160,000 properties worth $100 billion Australian dollars (~$71 billion).

The Auction

The auction will take place on April 8. There will be a live auctioneer on the property, which is located on the coast about 60 miles south of Brisbane. Nuyen Vice President Ryan Lee described the post-auction process:

Once the sale has been completed, Nuyen’s internal and secure exchange will then be responsible for facilitating the liquidation of the coins themselves and of course releasing them back to the market.

Costello, being a firm crypto believer, intends to keep as much of the BTC and BNB as he can, Micky conveyed. Nonetheless, he explained that “Some of the coins will have to be liquidated to release the mortgage but the rest will be held tight for future gains.”

What do you think of this live auction for BTC and BNB? Let us know in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, LJ Hooker, and Greg Costello.

Need to calculate your bitcoin holdings? Check our tools section.