DATE:  04.03.2020, 15:15:36
TITLE: Bitcoin Shopping App Partners With Leading Online Pet Store Powering BTC Rewards on 1,000 Popular Brands
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/03/04/bitcoin-shopping-app-partners-with-leading-online-pet-store-powering-btc-rewards-on-1000-popular-brands/

‏‏‎

Lolli, an app that allows users to earn Bitcoin when they shop at select websites, has partnered with Chewy.com, a top online pet supply store.

Lolli’s users can now earn 5% Bitcoin back when purchasing over 1,000 different products on the online pet store. Sending a tweet to Lolli with a picture of the user’s pet will net a shopper 5,000 satoshis – the smallest unit of Bitcoin.

The collaboration is designed to support Bitcoin adoption in everyday life, broadening its use case from speculative asset to earnings that can be spent at selected merchants.

Lolli has a number of big brand partnerships, including Priceline, Glossier and Expedia, that are aimed at introducing newbies to cryptocurrency while helping them acquire Bitcoin while they shop.

If users share their Lolli referral code with a friend, both will receive $10 in Bitcoin.

‏‏‎

Alex Adelman, CEO and co-founder of Lolli, says,

“Our users love their pets and Chewy has been one of the most highly requested merchants since we launched. Lolli users now have the opportunity to earn five percent back in Bitcoin on all their pet purchases.”

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/LeventeGyori