DATE:  04.03.2020, 06:31:08
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Spring Tails Slot Machine by Betsoft
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-spring-tails-slot-machine-by-betsoft/310806

Spring Tails is the release of Betsoft Gaming for the Chinese New Year which, as you may know, is called the Year of the Council in 2020. They gave us one of their most unpredictable games, using nice graphics and amazing returns, among the best you would expect from any machine à sous machine. The game can be played on Bitcoincasino.io.

A game that hasn’t many boards, just 5 on 5 reels, and Spring Tails has been built into the slot with the highest return around. Paying as much as 300,000x the stake in the round, the slot becomes capable of paying $150,182, even though the permitted wagers are minuscule. The slot has very high volatility with RTP sitting at 95.84 per cent. As for its functionality, there are up to 60x wild multipliers in use, along with scatters and free spins where only objects of high value are held around.

Because of the incredible potential of the game, the bets you’ll be able to stay within are very small. The smallest required wager is $0.05, whereas the largest is only $0.50, at least in the default setting.

The rewards listed for this game are absolutely amazing. The sheet of the game states that the stake is a probability for a cumulative win factor of 300,364x, and that the highest possible payout is $150,182 (which is insane, for a maximum bet of $0.50). It’s the player’s highest bet return that I’ve seen so far in any slot machine.

In this case, the incentives balance the risk and Spring Tails will be a slot with Very High volatility. In fact, only 9.65 percent of base game spins will result in some form of win, while only about 16.21 percent will win during free spins.

Without the wild symbol, seen here with the Lucky Rat picture, Spring Tails ‘ impressive returns wouldn’t be possible. The wild are on reels 2, 3, and 4. Any single wild that is part of a combo applies a random multiplier, and it can be either 3x, 4x, or 5x. Even better, the multipliers will combine with several of those wilds in a combination to raise wins by as much as 60x.

Second, the game also has a Golden Key in the role of scatter. Once again you just get those on the middle three reels. They’re expected to land on all three here though, so they can cause 12 free spins.The elimination of all Royal symbols from the reels is what makes the free spins unique. Since these are the lowest value symbols, you’re left with only the high value symbols on the reels. The chances of creating combinations are increasing, and then they’re also of greater value. Add the wild multipliers and it can really get interesting stuff. There is no way to retrigger the free spins though.