DATE:  04.03.2020, 12:00:11
TITLE: How to Earn Bitcoin (BTC) Really Fast Even in a Bear Market?
URL:   https://btcmanager.com/how-bitcoin-btc-bear-market/

How to Earn Bitcoin (BTC) Really Fast Even in a Bear Market?

2019 is a year full of mixed feelings for crypto traders. The bitcoin price started from $3,689 and once went to the moon at $13,879 but finally ended at $7,179 on the last day. Bitcoin gave so many chances for spot traders or futures traders. The compound annual growth rate of +94.61% makes bitcoin one of the most valuable investment assets of the world.

However, the Bitcoin prices have gone down to $8,500 from $10,000 two weeks ago. Is it a bear market? How to make money quickly through the bear market?

The answer is… wait, you have an answer? Please.

“Yes, we can short bitcoin beforehand.”

Correct, but not the perfect answer. It is not the only method.

In comparison by spot trading, futures trading allows traders to make profits out of the future price difference of the derivatives. You can long or short a derivative by positioning its current true value and being reasoning among the market sentiments.

With futures trading, you can use a small margin to open a leveraged position. However, when during horizontal movement of prices, futures trading may gain you fewer profits to cover the possible loss of the margin.

Options Trading: Higher Profitability Than Futures Trading and Sport Trading

An option is a contract that does not require you to buy or sell an underlying instrument but you have the right to take profits on the change of its value.

For example, if you trade options over ETH and predict its pricing to go up. If it goes up (no matter how big or small the change is), you take the profits. All you need to do is predict the right direction of the market, and open options to automatically sell to other traders who hold the opposite option.

You don’t need to swap your bitcoin into ETH. Using bitcoin to trade options over all the other kinds of cryptocurrencies saves all the swap fees for you.

Now, please let me introduce how to make profits with options trading, it can double your bitcoin every 60 seconds.

IE Option: It Is Easy to Make Options Trading to Gain up to 91% Profitability

IE Option, registered in London, United Kingdom, is an options trading platform operated by a team of blockchain experts and financial professionals. IE Option focuses on cryptocurrency-based financial derivatives including BTC, LTC, ETH, EOS, and XRP.

The profitability is from 60% to 91%, the most popular asset is BTC/USDT which gives 81%. The profitability means that if you open an option with 1 BTC and predict if the price will go up or go down 60 seconds later.

If the price goes as you predict, you will take 1.91 BTC back. If wrong, you will lose it. If it comes back to the original price where you bid, you will get 1 BTC back.

By calculating, once your winning rate is steadily over 52.36%, you will earn more bitcoin than losing.

(If you make it right for the price trends where it will go 60 seconds later, you will take your margin and revenue together immediately.)

Easy Deposit & Quick Withdrawal

How to start your earning career with IE Option?

Step 1: Create an account. IE Option cares about your privacy and does not ask for personal information, all you need to provide is simply to verify your email. The registration usually takes 30 seconds.

Step 2: Make a deposit. Bitcoin is accepted as the deposit crypto. You will get an exclusive bitcoin addy to process your funds. The minimum deposit amount is 0.001 BTC. Once the bitcoin transaction is confirmed by the blockchain, it will be added to your account balance immediately.

Step 3: Learn and trade. IE Option offers 10 BTC in your demo account for practice use. On you’re prepared, switch to the Real Account, watch the K-line carefully and keep calm, find the right timing to place your first option and wait 30 seconds to show the result. The only goal you need to go for is to reach a satisfying winning rate.

Step 4: Withdraw your profits. IE Option provides a quick liquidation process, your withdrawal request will be handled within 2 hours, and if with your email confirmation, it will be accelerated to take only 30 minutes.

100% First Deposit Bonus

IE Option is giving away a 100% deposit bonus to limited new users. All first deposit will be automatically doubled within 24 hours, without efforts to submit forms or do anything to get qualified. Simply deposit 1 BTC, then get 1 BTC bonus.

The deposit bonus can be traded in the same way as real bitcoin and you can withdraw its profits, more importantly, the amount of the profits is not limited.

Mobile App for Android & iOS

With mobile applications developed by IE Option Ltd., users can take this magical and powerful trading tool to your pocket with the same trading features from the website. Search IE Option trading app or go directly with the official links as follows.

About IE Option

Official Website – https://ieoption.com/

Google Play for Android Phone: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ie.option

Appstore for iPhone: https://apps.apple.com/tt/app/ie-option/id1492021667