DATE:  04.03.2020, 12:12:11
TITLE: WorldMarkets Continues With the Success of Its Trading Artificial Intelligence
URL:   https://www.livebitcoinnews.com/worldmarkets-continues-with-the-success-of-its-trading-artificial-intelligence/

Today we live in the information age, and access to information is unlimited. And that produces the paradox of misinformation. That’s why it’s more important than ever to have someone to trust, with access to truthful information and advanced tools for any activity related to the investment. This is the case of worldmarkets.com with its investment based on trading with AI.

The main point of WorldMarkets

Today, the most interesting feature of WorldMarkets is, without a doubt, its trading system based on artificial intelligence (AI). It started as a gold and silver price monitoring system, and they have evolved it over time until it became a complete system.

With their AI tool they can help their clients to invest without having to spend hundreds of hours searching for the right utility and potentially investible assets.

The process is quite simple, first you have to create an account in WorldMarkets. You should keep in mind that, being a real company with licenses to operate, they have certain limitations by countries (international embargoes to countries like North Korea, for example). Then the deposit is made in the desired currency, admitting a lot of means of payment, which include traditional currencies and the most important digital currencies, of course Bitcoin and some more.

Once we have a balance in our account, we have to configure a couple of options such as the level of risk and the moment our money will begin to be operated by the artificial intelligence (AI) based trading tool. We can stop it at any time and withdraw the profits whenever we want.

Two of the most interesting features of this trading system is that we have operating compound interest from the first moment (the benefits begin to be automatically reinvested as soon as they are collected, so that they generate more benefits on them). The other interesting feature is that WorldMarkets will only charge you commission on benefits, operations that do not yield benefits will have no commission.

Main advantage of trading with AI: its profitability

When you talk about investment, the main characteristic in which potential investors are focused on is, obviously, the profitability that a system or product is capable of producing. And this is one of the great strengths of the system: its long-term profitability.

The AI trader operates with artificial intelligence 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, identifying satisfactory operations or arbitrations between exchanges.

The system began operating in February 2017 and today, when 3 years of system life are reached, we have an average return of 21.77% per month. A very high and very interesting result, since it barely has months “in red”, and the months “in green” weigh much more in the total.

With these figures, results (with compound interest) of + 481% during 2017, + 647% during 2018 and + 718% during 2019 have been consolidated.

The big difference that WorldMarkets offers us with its automated trading system with AI is that the results are audited and verified by external companies, having a monthly report with the operations and results of the corresponding month. This increases customer confidence through transparency.

Other advantages of trading with AI from WorldMarkets

Security is one of the main concerns of WordMarkets, so the access account is protected with an encryption system, 2FA access and all kinds of modern protections. But, in addition, the trading operation itself is also protected against system failures, since it has implemented scientific and statistical methods to control the risk margins of operations and thus protect the profitability and duration of the entire system.

The other great advantage that WorldMarkets offers us is its generous affiliation system. By which we can act as ambassadors for the company, since they share with us 50% of the commissions generated by a client that we have brought to the platform. Recall that WorldMarkets only charges commission for trading operations that are beneficial to the customer, so it will be with those operations with which we will prosper all the members of the system, thus collaborating with it to be sustainable and profitable over time.

Other services offered

With their long experience in the bullion market, they offer us to buy and sell coins or bullion of the main raw materials and precious metals. In addition to remote investment (without owning the good) and even vault services: a vault or remote safe where your gold bars are stored in exchange for a small commission.

They also allow us to operate in the cryptocurrency market through their associate BitMex.

Finally, and as a sign that they are a very complete portal, they allow us to train in the world of trading at no cost with an interesting video section. Remember: information is power.

Conclusion

If you are looking for an easy and profitable investment intermediation service, WorldMarkets is a very interesting idea. And especially through its flagship product: the profitable investment vehicle based on AI for trading.

Official Links