DATE:  22.11.2019, 12:00:09
TITLE: Latest Bitcoin price and analysis (BTC to USD)
URL:   https://coinrivet.com/latest-bitcoin-price-and-analysis-btc-to-usd-30/

Bitcoin (BTC) is currently trading at just above $7,040 following a huge 20% drop in price since Monday.

BTC has now broken most of its support levels and seems to be in a free fall, believed to be due to miner capitulation.

Bitcoin has been consolidating since last month, and as such some analysts thought BTC would bounce back up at some point between $7,500 and $8,000.

However, price movement went the other way and seems to be going down further.

Will BTC recover soon?

Let’s take a look at Bitcoin’s chart.

At the time of writing, Bitcoin is on a very bearish trend. Lower highs are giving way to significant price drops.

Since the massive bull market that took Bitcoin close to $14,000 earlier in the year, the coin has been dropping in value following a downtrend that was only broken in late October when price broke through a number of key resistance levels (around the 200-day, 50-day, and 20-day EMAs).

Bitcoin is now 32% down from October’s high of $10,350 and 50% down from the yearly high in June.

Last week, I said I expected BTC to find a bottom near its 200-day EMA and that Bitcoin would bounce to around $10,000 soon. BTC has instead broken below its 200-day EMA and there isn’t much support volume to stop its fall.

The current Bitcoin trend

History shows us that BTC is prone to huge drops between 30% and 40% during bull seasons. Therefore, I don’t advise that you fight the trend, but surf it for as long as possible.

Last week, I underlined that within the next three to five weeks, we could see a major reversal after a period of serious accumulation by ‘hodlers’. We’re still in an accumulation phase and the current downtrend is proof.

Volume is again at yearly highs, currently above $28 billion, due to sell-off activity.

In addition, the volume profile shows the next strong support level to be all the way down at $5,000. This means there is still a lot of room for a further drop.

Will the trend reverse soon?

As veteran traders and investors usually say, smart money “buys when there’s blood on the streets”. I’ve been saying for the past month that I’m waiting for major drops to make hefty new entries. Moments like these are highly welcomed and appreciated.

I strongly believe Bitcoin to be a long-term store of value, especially as traditional markets continue to show weaknesses.

How can the markets continue to push higher throughout the year after the ECB’s recent rate cuts, the continuous share buybacks from huge corporations, or the inverted bond yield shoving investors away towards riskier assets?

In addition, repo market activity – as in loans from central banks to commercial and investment banks – has spiked to new monthly records. That adds up to another signal of weakness of the general economy.

In conclusion, investors and traders should pay attention to the overall economic panorama, as it will most likely be a major catalyst for worldwide BTC adoption.

Safe trades!

Current live Bitcoin pricing information and interactive charts are available on our site 24 hours a day. The ticker bar at the bottom of every page on our site has the latest Bitcoin price. Pricing is also available in a range of different currency equivalents:

US Dollar – BTCtoUSD

British Pound Sterling – BTCtoGBP

Japanese Yen – BTCtoJPY

Euro – BTCtoEUR

Australian Dollar – BTCtoAUD

Russian Rouble – BTCtoRUB

About Bitcoin

In August 2008, the domain name bitcoin.org was registered. On 31st October 2008, a paper was published called “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System”. This was authored by Satoshi Nakamoto, the inventor of Bitcoin. To date, no one knows who this person, or people, are.

The paper outlined a method of using a P2P network for electronic transactions without “relying on trust”. On 3rd January 2009, the Bitcoin network came into existence. Nakamoto mined block number “0” (or the “genesis block”), which had a reward of 50 Bitcoins.

More Bitcoin news and information

If you want to find out more information about Bitcoin or cryptocurrencies in general, then use the search box at the top of this page. Here’s an article to get you started.

As with any investment, it pays to do some homework before you part with your money. The prices of cryptocurrencies are volatile and go up and down quickly. This page is not recommending a particular currency or whether you should invest or not.

Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed by the author should not be considered as financial advice.