DATE:  23.09.2019, 17:30:31
TITLE: Can Bitcoin Donations Keep The Pirate Bay Afloat?
URL:   https://www.ccn.com/bitcoin-donations-pirate-bay/

They say that criminals are usually the first adopters of new technology. You may not agree with that idea, especially if you’re a frequent torrent user.

In 2009 founders of one the most popular file-sharing service worldwide, The Pirate Bay, ran afoul of the law. That didn’t stop them, however, and in 2013 the site was still around but now accepting bitcoin.

Over the last six years, The Pirate Bay (TPB) has looked to cryptocurrency donations as a way to stay afloat. CCN took a cursory glance at some of TPB’s wallets to see what we could dig up.

Bitcoin Donations

Back in April 2013, Wired reported one of the first-ever sightings of a public bitcoin donation address:

1Kqzbv4ekpJX3ohYWGEzMqzvf27VjBux35

In total, this wallet has brought in donations to the tune of 22.574 BTC. A healthy sum by any measure, however, the last donation was made a year ago and a new wallet address now adorns the site:

3HcEB6bi4TFPdvk31Pwz77DwAzfAZz2fMn

To date, this wallet has brought in a mere 0.49 BTC bringing the total up to 23.065 BTC.

Bitcoin is not fully anonymous but can be used more privately when needed. Not surprisingly most of the funds have since been transferred out of the above-mentioned wallets.

SegWit Donations

Segregated witness (SegWit) is a protocol upgrade for bitcoin and came into effect in July of 2017 for certain wallets. The Pirate Bay also lists a SegWit wallet in its growing list of donation alternatives.

To date, The Pirate Bay has only received 1.486 BTC in this wallet bringing the combined totals up to approximately 24.5508 BTC.

Litecoin Donations

Although Wikipedia cites Litecoin as a donation option for The Pirate Bay back in 2013, CCN was unable to find a wallet address that stretched that far back.

Its current wallet only provides transaction data back to December 2017, the same period as its current bitcoin wallet. That suggests that TPB may also have received substantial LTC donations in the missing years between 2013 and late 2017.

The Pirate Bay’s current Litecoin wallet has a paltry 3.4 LTC to its credit so far.

Forks and Unknowns

It’s worth keeping in mind that if the team had held bitcoin throughout this period they would also have benefited from any hard forks, like Bitcoin Cash, that took place in the interim.

That aside, the last remaining crypto that’s listed on The Pirate Bay’s site is Monero, the obvious question mark of the bunch. As a fully anonymous cryptocurrency, Monero is the likely go-to store of value for the founders.

Monero was only launched in 2014, which means that serious fans of the embattled torrent service would have had fewer years to contribute.

Guessing how much Monero (XMR tokens) the founders have thus far received is a complete thumb-suck. What is sure, though, is that they have received XMR, especially if you’re a regular pirate:

Tallying Up the Totals

These totals are by no means exhaustive and provide just an amusing anecdote of the digital coffers available to The Pirate Bay.

Bitcoin = ~24.5508 btc = $244,000

Litecoin = ~3.4 ltc = $251

Monero = ?? xmr

That’s a total of $250,000. Taking into account hard forks and unknown holdings in Litecoin and Monero, let’s speculate on a grand total of about $500,000 worth of cryptocurrency. Then you have to consider if they were extreme hodlers or not. Unlikely. A man’s gotta eat.

Regardless, it’s not much in the grand scheme of things. If bitcoin does ever hit that magic $1 million mark, well then the game will surely have changed.

Can cryptocurrency donations keep The Pirate Bay afloat? Well, TPB has only been collecting cryptocurrency donations for the last six years out of the 16 they’ve been around. If more lawsuits show up, they’ll probably need that bigger war chest.

When asked in a 2013 interview about the case against them, co-founder Fredrik Neij in true decentralized style explained:

“They want around 20 million Euro in damages. But good luck finding that money. I don’t have that kind of money.”

He added:

“If they knew that our entire office is a chat room on IRC, they wouldn’t believe it. Yeah we tried to get organized but we failed every single time. I don’t think they even can grasp the idea of an organization without a boss.”