DATE:  15.03.2020, 08:40:39
TITLE: Bitcoin Miner Retrieves Old Wallet with 1000 BTC, Liquidates Before Crash
URL:   https://www.cointrust.com/bitcoin-news/bitcoin-miner-retrieves-old-wallet-with-1000-btc-liquidates-before-crash

Bitcoin Miner Retrieves Old Wallet with 1000 BTC, Liquidates Before Crash March 15, 2020

Bitcoin Miner Retrieves Old Wallet with 1000 BTC, Liquidates Before Crash

A former Bitcoin enthusiast found an old wallet comprising of 1,000 Bitcoin, along with several Bitcoin forks.

A posting on Bitcointalk forum on March 10 by a self-proacclaimed “newbie,” who has returned back to crypto sector after a lengthy interval, asked for guidance on gaining access to a wallet with considerable quantity of Bitcoins.

The user, referred by the name “whoamisoon”, professed to have mined a considerable quantity of Bitcoin years before, by employing a GPU. The forum poster had recently identified the wallet.dat file on a USB gadget.

The ex-miner had asked for suggestion on how to transfer the Bitcoins to sell. Furthermore, he asked whether the same quantity of Bitcoin Cash is held in the wallet and how to liquidate the BCH.

The user was delighted to hear from other posters that a huge pile of forked coins can be accessed as well.

The user expressed his happiness by saying “Didn’t know there have been so many forks! Awesome! Love it!”

In the same day, crypto watchers were able to track the movement of 1,000 Bitcoins mined on August 24,2010, leading to speculation that the coins were owned by whoamisoon.

The coins seemed to have been moved to Coinbase. Three days before, the user visited the forum again and thanked the members who gave suitable advice to gain control over the heap of Bitcoins.

“Thank you all for all the suggestions. It was overall a great return and the best welcome one can get! Keep it up; I can see it helping others that are in my shoes as well.”

The forum post also indicated that whoamisoon may have diluted the holdings before March 13, implying that the average selling price could have been between $7,500 and $8,000, translation to $7.50 million to $8million for the 1,000 Bitcoins held.

Notably, the value of altcoins (BCH and BSV) awarded during various forking process could have resulted in a gain of $500,000.