DATE:  02.04.2020, 08:15:40
TITLE: 25 Best Web Hosting Services [2020] – Bitcoin Accepted
URL:   https://blokt.com/featured/best-web-hosting-services

In this detailed guide, you can find a list of the 25 best web hosting providers that allow you to pay with Bitcoin or cryptocurrencies. We include shared, dedicated, cloud, virtual, and anonymous hosting services.

Are you in need of a web hosting service but want to pay for it using Bitcoin or crypto? If so, you have come to the right place as in this article we will list and review the best web hosting services available that accept cryptocurrency as payment.

Whether you want to pay using Bitcoin for increased privacy or some other reason, this article has everything you need to help you find the right web hosting service for your unique needs.

We’ll quickly go over the basics of web hosting and the main types of hosting services, so you know what to look for. Then we will highlight a good spread of options for each kind of web hosting service.

What is Web Hosting?

Web hosting is a service that provides the means for people to create a web page or website on the Internet.

This service is offered by a web host, which has the technical knowledge and physical hardware to transform the details of a website into something that can be viewed and interacted with on the Internet. This process takes place on a server, which ultimately relies on a specialized computer tasked wholly or in part with the hosting of websites.

To access your website users simply need to put your Internet address or domain into their browser, and their computer will make the connection to your server and allow them to view and interact with your website.

Here is a brief guide about the basics of web hosting.

Web Hosting Types

There are 5 main types of web hosting services, with a few overlapping subcategories that we won’t go into detail on.

Shared Web Hosting

Shared hosting is more or less what it sounds like: one physical server hosts multiple websites and shares its computing power among the hosted sites as necessary.

Since the web host must manage the nature of the sharing between the multiple supported websites, shared hosting tends to be limited to a small range of website services that the web host provides directly.

Shared hosting is great for small business and general websites which don’t require too many resources and also which don’t get massive amounts of traffic.

Pros

Cheap

Easy and fast to set-up and use

and to set-up and use Web host is responsible for maintenance, security, etc

Cons

Less secure

Unsuitable for large and complex websites

for large and complex websites Lack of features and tools

of features and tools Little to no control

Little to no control Possible performance issues

Dedicated Web Hosting

Dedicated hosting is directly contrasted with shared hosting. Whereas shared hosting means multiple different websites hosted on one physical server, dedicated hosting means that the website is hosted on one, or more, exclusive physical servers.

Having dedicated server hardware for your website means a greater degree of customization and control. That said, many dedicated web hosts still manage some of the security and administration of dedicated servers, but there is generally more room for potential customization.

Pros

Less likely to experience periods of poor performance

to experience periods of poor performance Generally more customization and control

Generally More secure

Cons

Higher monthly or hourly rates

monthly or hourly rates Generally comes with more responsibility for maintenance, security, etc

Generally comes with Often too complicated for non-technical users to create and manage

Virtual Private Server (VPS) Web Hosting

VPS hosting is essentially a hybrid between shared hosting and dedicated hosting.

VPS hosting works through the creation of multiple virtual servers on one physical server. Therefore, the operating system for the hosted website acts as if it was the only website hosted on the physical server, while actually still sharing computing power with other hosted virtual servers.

While this distinction may seem meaningless to people who do not understand the technical implications, it actually results in some significant differences between a physical server that directly hosts multiple shared websites and one that hosts multiple independent virtual servers.

VPS hosting lets you manage your website as if it were privately hosted, while not needing to use the full computing potential of an entire dedicated server.

Pros

Cheaper than dedicated hosting

than dedicated hosting More control and customization than shared hosting

More and than shared hosting More secure than shared hosting

More than shared hosting Scalable to exact needs

to exact needs Good middle-ground or bridge between users who are too large for shared hosting but too small for dedicated hosting

Cons

More expensive than shared hosting

Cloud Web Hosting

Cloud hosting is similar in many ways to VPS hosting except that the virtual server hosting your website is supported by multiple physical servers that are connected through cloud computing.

Cloud computing operates as a network of connected physical computers that can lend computing power toward a shared task or tasks. Often the physical computers connected through a cloud can be in completely different locations, which helps to remove the risk of service downtime caused by physical damage/issues.

Pros

Most scalable hosting

Most hosting Simplifies much of the technical issues involved in the creation, backup, maintenance , etc

much of the involved in the , etc Negligible physical risk of a host failure

of a host failure Generally cheaper

Generally A high degree of customization and flexibility

Cons

Less secure to hacking

to hacking Can be more expensive if resources are poorly allocated by hosting service

Anonymous Web Hosting

Anonymous hosting was designed for people who are looking to protect their personal details, privacy or safety while publishing information on the Internet. There are obviously many unique reasons why someone would want to remain anonymous or unassociated with a website they own.

The need for dedicated anonymous hosting arises from the fact that most web hosts will require you to fill out key personal details in the registration process, or the payment system for remunerating the hosting company will require these details at the very least.

Anonymous web hosts have made it possible to use their services without needing to provide any identifying information.

Pros

Total anonymity

Total Generally all hosting service types are available to meet your needs

Cons

More expensive for the same level of service as traditional web hosts

for the same level of service as traditional web hosts Little to no regulation and oversight

Little to no Can be difficult to establish credibility, reliability and security

Web Host Chart

Now that you know what the different web hosting services look like, let’s dive right into a decent spread of the top providers from each category that accept Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies as payment.

Using this chart and the more detailed reviews below, you can find the exact web hosting service for your needs that will accept crypto in some form as payment.

Shared Web Hosting

Hostwinds

Hostwinds shared hosting is among the top choices available for its sheer simplicity and ease-of-use. Hostwinds is designed for those who need entry-level services and have little or no technical knowledge and experience with web hosting.

Its plans offer unlimited bandwidth, which is ideal for users who have no concept of what their needs will be.

There are, however, some concerns about customer service and support, as Hostwinds is a small company.

Hostinger

Hostinger shared hosting is on the slightly more expensive side of the market for what is offered, but remains within the small price window range for shared hosting services. This small premium charged is attributed to the fact that Hostinger offers some of the most comprehensive customer support in the industry.

Hostinger also offers its own website builder, which is very easy-to-use and effective.

Hawk Host

Hawk Host shared hosting can probably boast the simplest interface and plans on the market. In addition, it offers some of the lowest monthly rates for its shared hosting services.

Hawk Host may not be the best choice for website owners with more advanced needs, but for people who only need the bare-bones in services from their web host, Hawk Host will be hard to beat.

Namecheap

Namecheap shared hosting is a simple and inexpensive option for your hosting needs.

While its hardware and interface are slightly dated, it can still compete with the latest industry developments for shared web hosting.

Namecheap is ideal for people looking to run multiple separate websites using shared hosting, and who are willing to sacrifice a bit of functionality to save on price.

HostSailor

HostSailor shared hosting has some of the latest hardware and decently priced plans, but falls a bit short in a few areas.

First, it does not have any unlimited plans and charges extra for added use, which can be hard to deal with for people with little knowledge of how web hosting and associated technical issues work.

Second, it does not have the best support and features. In addition, everything on the site reads like it was poorly translated to English.

Dedicated Web Hosting

Vultr

Vultr dedicated hosting is a good choice for people who are new to dedicated hosting, usually those who are graduating from shared hosting that is no longer suitable for their needs.

The Vultr dedicated hosting package is simple, cheap and straightforward, while still offering all the basics that a user will need from a dedicated host.

Vultr has a middling reputation among the top dedicated web hosts, being a slightly smaller and newer company than the rest of the main industry players.

Bitcoin Web Hosting

Bitcoin Web Hosting dedicated servers combines anonymous hosting, Bitcoin payments and a commitment to high quality dedicated hosting that shows through in its services.

Using the latest hardware, Bitcoin Web Hosting has a decent range of service packages for dedicated hosting, and good prices for the features offered at each level.

As Bitcoin Web Hosting is a smaller and less well-known web host, there could be customer service and support issues.

Namecheap

Namecheap dedicated hosting manages to outcompete most of its direct competitors on price for features offered per package. That said, its dedicated hosting packages are pretty basic and there isn’t the kind of scalability that its top competitors can offer.

With a focus on users who are new to dedicated hosting, Namecheap also offers a range of fee-based services for server management.

Namecheap is a great choice for people new to dedicated hosting who want to save money and may need a helping hand along the way.

Hosterbox

Hosterbox dedicated hosting is a good solution for a wide range of hosting needs. Its lower-end packages are suitable for people with simple dedicated hosting needs, while its higher-end packages will be useful for more advanced users.

Hosterbox is a small company with a ‘hands-on’ approach to support and service. Therefore, while their services can often have that ‘personal touch’, they may be inadequate for users who need a large amount of straightforward technical support.

Hosterbox is ideal for people new to dedicated hosting or who need advanced packages with little additional support.

Bullhost

Bullhost dedicated hosting has a solid range of options available for people who know what they’re looking for, though its prices are slightly higher than the competition.

Bullhost is designed for advanced users who have knowledge and experience with managing a dedicated server, and need a reliable web host for supporting advanced Internet marketing campaigns.

If you know exactly what you want from a dedicated server and want to pay with Bitcoin, then Bullhost is likely the best option on the market.

Virtual Private Server (VPS) Web Hosting

Shinjiru

Shinjiru VPS hosting has recently upgraded its services to be some of the best in the industry. It also has a nice range of paid upgrades available that let you mix and match your plan to suit your needs, instead of forcing you to pay for services you don’t want.

Overall its prices are a little on the high side, but the fact that all its hosting services can be run anonymously probably accounts for the small premium paid.

Hostinger

Hostinger VPS hosting offers a tight yet comprehensive range of hosting packages with very good value. The range of VPS services offered by Hostinger should be adequate for the needs of the vast majority of users, and it is all presented in a straightforward system of scalability.

Hostinger has a focus on education and customer and technical support for all its services, and this holds true with its VPS hosting as well.

Users with more advanced needs may, however, find Hostinger’s plans inadequate.

Hawk Host

Hawk Host VPS hosting does not offer a very good range of plans and the value of the services received is middling. However, its VPS packages are very cheap and simple, which makes it ideal for people who only need basic VPS hosting and are operating on a tight budget.

In addition, Hawk Host has a good focus on people new to VPS hosting and hosting in general, so you can expect good customer service and technical support.

RamNode

RamNode VPS hosting has some of the best scalability on offer for very competitive prices. It offers the use of the latest hardware supporting its virtual servers, but also has the option to use older hardware for a lower cost.

It also has additional features and extended capabilities available for fees, but this is more clunky to implement on RamNode than on other advanced VPS service providers.

Any advanced users that are also concerned about savings will be well served by RamNode’s VPS hosting.

HostSailor

HostSailor VPS hosting has some of the lowest rates in the industry while still offering a decent range of features in its packages.

Although it doesn’t really offer the high-end VPS packages that users would be looking at as alternatives to dedicated hosting, it does offer enough range for most users that are looking for a low-price alternative to shared hosting.

It also has low added fees for its additional features.

The only general drawback about HostSailor is its lower rated customer support, so it is best for people who are already confident with managing VPS hosting services.

Cloud Web Hosting

Linode

Linode cloud hosting is a leader in the industry, and it shows in everything that it offers.

Its cloud hosting plans are comprehensive, highly scalable and very good value. It is also easy to upgrade and downgrade between plans as your demand requires, with only minor fees for going over bandwidth limits.

Linode is also well-known for having very effective and responsive customer service.

DigitalOcean

DigitalOcean cloud hosting is easily a contender for the top spot in today’s market. It offers extremely flexible and scalable plans that will optimize the performance of your website based on its specific needs for the lowest cost possible.

DigitalOcean is also often praised for its simple and intuitive management interface and good customer support.

We don’t like to say that any one provider is the best for everyone, but DigitalOcean is definitely a contender for this claim.

Vultr

Vultr cloud hosting has a good range of packages, and some of the most competitive packages value-wise at the bottom end of the market. That said, the top-end of the market is dominated by other cloud hosting sites.

Vultr is known for an easy-to-use interface that is appropriate for people new to cloud hosting.

Hostwinds

Hostwinds cloud hosting offers a smaller number of middle-of-the-road packages with decent value.

Its main attraction is its sheer simplicity, and it offers partial to full management of cloud servers for a reasonable price. This makes it a strong choice for people who are new to cloud hosting and are not interested in learning how to manage their own servers.

Many Hostwind reviews mention concerns about customer service responsiveness in terms of delays.

Glow Host

Glow Host cloud hosting has a very small range of higher priced plans, but the cost is made up for in the higher quality services, lack of any downtime or interruptions, and industry-leading customer support.

Users who know precisely what they need from their cloud hosting service and are not concerned about paying a premium for quality will find a good match in Glow Host.

Anonymous Web Hosting

IT Itch

IT Itch anonymous hosting offers the full range of hosting services at reasonably competitive prices while guaranteeing the anonymity of its clients. Although its website may seem a little simplistic, it has all the essential information that users need.

IT Itch has comprehensive knowledge in covering the major security issues faced by anonymous web hosting services.

CyberBunker

CyberBunker anonymous hosting is the only famous, or perhaps infamous, anonymous hosting service, as it is one of the providers that WikiLeaks has relied on in the past. Whether you think this notoriety is a good thing or not is up to you.

Its physical servers boast an impressive degree of protection that is probably unmatched in anonymous hosting.

Its website is reasonably professional and its services offered are comprehensive, if slightly expensive.

MivoCloud

MivoCloud anonymous hosting is more or less like any standard web hosting service, so much so that you might not even be aware that it offers anonymous hosting.

It has highly scalable packages across the full range of hosting services, and its prices are competitive, though far from the industry lowest.

As far as security is concerned, it is obvious that the people at MivoCloud know their stuff.

Shinjiru

Shinjiru anonymous hosting is another example of a company whose services are competitive with the industry leaders while also offering anonymity to users.

It was one of the first movers in the offshore web hosting sector, and it has continued to lead the industry over the last 2 decades.

Its service packages are comprehensive and reasonably scalable, while its prices are competitive with industry standards.

Vindo Hosting

Vindo anonymous hosting is the best choice for people looking for a simple solution to their anonymous hosting needs.

While most other providers offer the full range of packages and services, Vindo focuses on shared and VPS hosting, offering good value for money on a small range of available packages.

References

Disclosure: Blokt strives to provide transparent, honest reviews, and opinions. The writer of this article is a user of the product(s) or service(s) mentioned in this article and was not influenced by the respective owners. We rarely run ads, but sometimes earn a small commission when you purchase a product or service via a link on our site. Thank you kindly for your support.