DATE:  02.04.2020, 14:40:10
TITLE: Bitcoin IRA Adds Physical Gold to Its 24/7 Self-Trade Retirement Platform Despite Global Shortages
URL:   https://www.aithority.com/technology/cryptocurrency/bitcoin-ira-adds-physical-gold-to-its-24-7-self-trade-retirement-platform-despite-global-shortages/

Gold is greatly out-performing nearly every other asset globally due to fears over the coronavirus impact and inevitable inflation of the US dollar. As a result, demand for physical gold soared in recent weeks and now many investment-grade gold options are out of stock with remaining available inventory having large premiums or extremely long shipping delays. In contrast, Bitcoin IRA’s Gold offering doesn’t have these limitations since its physical gold assets are transferred digitally so it greatly reduces the burdens of physical gold investing while still providing the same gold benefits and ownership rights.

Recommended AI News: Automation Provides A Content Lifeline For Remote Work

The benefits of buying Gold on Bitcoin IRA’s platform include:

Available Now: Physical Gold inventory is available today at regular market prices despite gold shortages in the United States and globally.

Physical Gold inventory is available today at regular market prices despite gold shortages in and globally. Easy & Fast: Individuals can instantly buy and sell real, physical gold directly in their self-directed retirement account using the company’s proprietary 24/7 self-trading platform.

Individuals can instantly buy and sell real, physical gold directly in their self-directed retirement account using the company’s proprietary 24/7 self-trading platform. Cheaper: Traditional gold firms have high broker fees and charge expensive vault storage fees. Bitcoin IRA’s gold program removes the middle-men and is a cost-effective, convenient and a safer way to invest in physical gold.

Traditional gold firms have high broker fees and charge expensive vault storage fees. Bitcoin IRA’s gold program removes the middle-men and is a cost-effective, convenient and a safer way to invest in physical gold. Secure: The gold is insured at Brink’s bullion vault facility, including any gold in transit (learn more). Additionally, all digital assets purchased on the Bitcoin IRA platform are stored with BitGo Trust, a US-registered qualified custodian, with $100M custody insurance policy (learn more).

Physical Gold joins 7 other digital assets available on Bitcoin IRA platform including Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), Ripple (XRP), Litecoin (LTC), Bitcoin Cash (BCH), Stellar Lumens (XLM) and Zcash (ZEC).

Recommended AI News: How the Death of Third-Party Cookies Will Benefit Your Digital Data Strategy

Chris Kline, COO of Bitcoin IRA said:

“Alternative assets like physical gold can be key to effective portfolio diversification. Our goal is to continue expanding options for our clients. The current market environment makes it clear they are looking for more than traditional stocks and bonds.”

Since 2016, Bitcoin IRA has processed over $400 million in cryptocurrency transactions, opened more than 50,000 consumer accounts, and performed thousands of individual trades for its clients using its proprietary 24/7 online self-trader.

Recommended AI News: Identity Theft is Booming; Your SSN Sells for Less than $4 on Darknet