DATE:  02.04.2020, 09:46:04
TITLE: Bitcoin Gold (BTG) Rich List Probably Will Influence the Price and Small Fishes to Follow
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/13070/bitcoin-gold-btg-rich-list-probably-will-influence-the-price-and-small-fishes-to-follow/

A single whale holding a significant portion of Bitcoin Gold (BTG) in circulation is believed to influence the price of BTG.

There were two blockchain re-organizations on the Bitcoin Gold blockchain due to a secret 51% attack that took place recently. A new soft fork concept known as the “Cross-Chain Block Notarization Protocol” (CCBN), was introduced to prevent further attacks.

The Cross-Chain Block Notarization Protocol (CCBN) leverages the Notary Chain. The Notarizations consist of complete BTG block headers, which includes the solution hashes. The solution hashes cannot be faked. When a secret miner notarizes the blocks, it becomes public, and if the mining entity does not notarize, it will publish the secret chain. An attack will thus be prevented due to the low weight.

A refusal happens either at the exchange or at the chain, and therefore the double-spending fails. A research also assumes that roughly 11 million BTG is either lost forever or is inactive. This is because a lot of BTC nearly 10.7 million-plus has not been moved. Several individuals have refused to claim a forked coin and the BTG from these forks to never make it use unless claimed by its owners.

BTG has been catching the attention of the cryptocurrency community for all of these reasons. For all these reasons, researchers have estimated that there is nearly 7 million BTG in the market; however, the true value is somewhere near 4 to 5 million.

Sydney Ifergan, the crypto expert, tweeted: “A Bitcoin Gold (BTG) rich list probably is considered to influence the price. Researchers opine that small fishes should follow the big whales to avoid getting bitten.”

Bitcoin Gold (BTG) Halving event

Bitcoin Gold tweeted: “$BTG is a community project, you decide what matters, and we listen to you. Many have asked about a #USDT pair in #Binance. Together we can make it possible, help us by signing the petition. We want 5000 signatures!”

The Bitcoin Gold network will halve at 210,000 blocks. The BTG halving is expected to take place on Saturday, April 18, 2020, at the block height of 630,000. The Bitcoin Gold Network block rewards will go down from 12.5 to 6.25 coins after the halving event.

Whatever be the version of Bitcoin, it is time to go long. One of the cryptocurrency investors stated those who do not deal with blockchain and cryptocurrencies, in general, today will have to end up in Stone Age in about 20 to 30 years to come.

Advertisement