DATE:  02.04.2020, 09:16:15
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Long Pao Slot Machine Game by Netent
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-long-pao-slot-machine-game-by-netent/161509

Your history professor must have mentioned a thing or two about the Qing Dynasty when China was led by emperors unlike now when the president is the one in charge. If you were not paying much attention, do not worry as the Long Pao Slot game introduces you to the last imperial family of the Qing Dynasty. You can enjoy the game with real money, Bitcoin and even free demo play at the Bitcoincasino IO website.

You will get a chance to interact with the leaders of the Qing Dynasty as they welcome you into the Imperial Palace. Before you get into the palace, they will dress you in a dragon robe, embroidered in Chinese dragons, which are good luck charms.

A combination of the bright aesthetic colors and the comic style of the game will definitely keep you interested. Let’s not forget the gentle instrumental that starts playing as soon as you load the game. J, Q, K and A are the least valuable symbols.

The sharp sword pays a little more, but the princess, empress, prince, and emperor will earn you even bigger prizes. This amazing slot game by Netent features 5 reels, 3 rows, and 25 fixed paylines.

Honestly, the Swedish-based gaming giant has outdone itself in this game. Instead of the usual red and gold themes present in most Asian-themed slot games, Long Pao brings the royals to life in a unique comic way.

Netent is also the developer behind Jack Hammer, another Asian-themed slot game that took the gambling scene by storm. If you are not willing to risk any money, you can play Long Pao online for free, either on your mobile or personal computer.

The Long Pao logo is the game’s wild symbol. It is hard to miss and though it does not offer any payouts, it can substitute all other standard symbols increasing your chances of winning.

The Sticky Win feature, which also featured in Jack Hammer, is activated whenever you land a winning combination or free spins. It is frequently triggered and offers you up to 30 free spins, all with a chance to win amazing prizes.

The Chinese dragon is the symbol for free spins. Five or more Chinese dragons are required to trigger the feature, with 10 free spins being the least you can be awarded. The free spins can go up to 30 if you land between 9 and 15 dragons. Besides, the dragons multiply your wins by 3x.