DATE:  02.04.2020, 12:37:19
TITLE: Blockstream Co-Founder Joins Bitcoin-Only Start-up River Financial
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/blockstream-co-founder-joins-bitcoin-only-start-up-river-financial/78419/

Trade veteran Jonathan Wilkins, a co-founder of bitcoin tech start-up Blockstream, is becoming a member of up-and-coming bitcoin brokerage River Financial as chief safety officer (CSO).

River is a bitcoin-only monetary establishment for getting and promoting the digital forex (emphatically not an alternate; it says it is "for the long-term investor"). At the moment obtainable solely to testers who've obtained invitations, the San Francisco-based outfit is engaged on an interface it hopes might be as slick as Jack Dorsey's Sq. Money, geared up with computerized recurring buys.

Wilkins brings C-level gravitas and cypherpunk bona fides to River. He was the CSO at Blockstream, an outfit devoted to bettering bitcoin expertise with tasks similar to Liquid, for quicker funds between exchanges and a system of satellites used to broadcast bitcoin block information from house.

Early in his profession he labored at Zero Information Methods, which constructed a forerunner to the anonymizing Tor community. (His title there was "adversary," in line with his LinkedIn profile.) Later he was a safety architect at Microsoft, Zynga and Yelp.

In comparison with different Blockstream co-founders who're outspoken on Twitter or usually seem within the media, Wilkins has laid low. He is joined River to shepherd the corporate's safety mannequin, a very essential a part of the enterprise, since it's custodial, taking good care of customers' personal keys.

"By specializing in simplicity and what's greatest for customers in the long run (dollar-cost averaging and holding) as an alternative of pushing altcoins and inspiring extra energetic buying and selling as a way to enhance charges, River is nearer to the historic preferrred of a financial institution," mentioned Wilkins. "I needed to be a part of an organization involved with serving to its neighborhood develop its wealth and offering an alternative choice to right this moment's extra predatory monetary establishments" READ Iran President: We Need a Muslim Cryptocurrency to Fight the US Dollar

River Financial has constructed its infrastructure from "the bottom up," founder and CEO Alexander Leishman mentioned.

"We're on this in the long run," Leishman mentioned, including that River has already made a few massive choices based mostly on Wilkins' "steerage," similar to not counting on third-party cloud computing companies.

"It is a number of work to not do this however we are able to construct a system that we totally management," Leishman mentioned.

Laser-like focus

River Financial differs from many companies used to purchase and promote cryptocurrency in that it is centered solely on bitcoin.

"We consider bitcoin goes to be essentially the most dominant cryptocurrency. If something turns into a world cash, it should be bitcoin," Leishman mentioned.

Even including one cryptocurrency considerably will increase the complexity of engineering a system, he mentioned. Different firms managing many tokens are continually "placing out fires."

Plus, engaged on bitcoin solely has allowed River to undertake some cutting-edge expertise that different firms haven't got the time and vitality to look into, Leishman mentioned. "Bitcoin-only lets us take it to a different stage nobody has ever taken issues earlier than."

River Financial is among the earliest firms to undertake the lightning community, a speedier cost system that is broadly thought-about a key a part of bitcoin's future.

As well as, Leishman mentioned River depends "closely" on Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions (PSBT) so that every person in a multi-signature transaction can signal it from a special {hardware} gadget. For these within the nitty-gritty, River Financial software program engineer Philip Glazman tweeted a thread outlining lots of the applied sciences it is utilizing and the selections it made. READ Bitcoiners in Europe Reflect on Economic Shocks as Coronavirus Spreads