DATE:  02.04.2020, 10:30:11
TITLE: Cryptocurrency Now Accepted at Arkansas Jewelry Retailer
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/cryptocurrency-now-accepted-at-arkansas-jewelry-retailer/

Cryptocurrency Now Accepted at Arkansas Jewelry Retailer

Diamond Gems Jewelry, in Jonesboro, AR has launched a new E-Commerce website accepting multiple forms of Cryptocurrency including Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Dai, Ethereum, Litecoin, USD Coin and you can even pay using your Coinbase account.

• *11% of the American population owns the major cryptocurrency bitcoin (BTC), according to a new survey.

• Traditional credit and debit payments will also be accepted.

• Over 300,000 pieces of fine jewelry will be available for purchase along with unique pre-loved pieces as well.

In 2013, Larry Payton, a cryptocurrency & gold enthusiast, purchased the business and has been investing in its growth ever since.

Diamond Gems Jewelry recognizes the importance of customers having online access to their business to shop at their convenience, so they’ve invested in an incredible new ecommerce site.

Since 11% of Americans own Bitcoin, Diamond Gems Jewelry also recognized the need to offer the option for their customers to pay with Bitcoin as well as other popular forms of cryptocurrency.

“Offering our customers the convenience of cryptocurrency payments for our gorgeous jewelry is going to be a game changer.” – Marketing Director, Vanna Headley said.

“Whether you’re looking for the perfect engagement ring for the love of your life, a gift for a friend, a luxurious watch or anything in between, Diamond Gems Jewelry has a beautiful selection to accommodate anyone’s wish list.”

*Source: https://cointelegraph.com/news/11-of-americans-own-bitcoin-major-awareness-increased-since-2017

Contact Email Address

info@diamondgemsjewelry.com

Supporting Link

https://diamondgemsjewelry.com/

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons