DATE:  01.04.2019, 19:22:53
TITLE: “Bitcoin and Friends” Animated Series Airs Spicy First Episode
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-and-friends-animated-series-airs-spicy-first-episode/

“Bitcoin and Friends” Animated Series Airs Spicy First Episode

There’s a new animated series called “Bitcoin and Friends” that’s been making its rounds across the web after the first episode was released by Uncle Chris Productions. The humorous and sometimes raunchy cartoon is an eight-part series that aims to make people laugh during the depressing bear market and the crypto saltiness on social media.

Also read: Broken Phone? Don’t Sweat It — Restore a Bitcoin Wallet in Minutes

Bitcoin and Friends Search for the Elusive Father of Crypto

On March 29, Uncle Chris Productions released the first episode of an eight-part series that encapsulates the life of a lonely bitcoin in search of his lost father. The show “Bitcoin and Friends” stars “B,” a bitcoin who finds himself in a hospital and starts an adventure to find out who he is and who created him. Along the way, B finds some quirky friends in the first episode, called “Tears of a Clown”, whose storyline is based in New Jersey back in 2009.

The protagonist meets an assortment of characters including his father Satoshi Nakamoto, Pal Fifty, Itty Bitty, Mitalik, Ethereum, and the Bankster Henchmen. The show’s entire first episode can be seen on Youtube, though be warned the show is NSFW and can be a bit risqué at times. The cartoon’s remaining seven episodes are entirely crowd-funded and fans can donate to “Bitcoin and Friends” via the official website.

Contributing to the show comes with perks which include the possibility of getting your own personalized character in the show, private screenings, and digital figurines depending on how much is donated. Users can donate BTC, BCH, ETH, LTC, NEO, and 12 other cryptocurrencies.

The funds go toward the production budget that consists of allocating the money to voice talent, sound design, original music, music licensing, and character design. The producer of “Bitcoin and Friends,” Robert Allen, explained during the episode launch that “the story of Bitcoin and crypto is so colorful that it was an obvious treasure trove of good comedy and compelling characters and stories.”

“In the pilot episode, we start at the beginning of bitcoin in 2009 and wanted to show the frailty and uncertainty of those early days,” explains Uncle Chris, the show’s director and the voice of the protagonist lead called B. “Bitcoin will become more powerful and confident as the season progresses,” Uncle Chris added.

Vomiting Proof-of-Work

During the episode, we find that B suffers from a condition known as “proof-of-work” which happens when he vomits a bunch of smaller bitcoins out of his mouth. B also meets an African American character named Jones who takes the bitcoin to meet the all-knowing inventor of Ethereum called ‘Mitalik.’ The show’s creators aim to use the humor and New Jersey lifestyle as a way to “educate non-crypto people about bitcoin and related technologies and bring them into the space.” “We think it could be a good entry point for the non-initiated and we also hope the show will be a bit of a pressure release valve for the crypto community at large,” Allen explained in a recent interview.

The next seven episodes are on hold until enough funding has been secured, and the synopsis of the upcoming stories is locked until funding is completed. However, the next episodes are titled already and consist of show titles Existence Crisis, The Silky Road, Federal Undercover Agents (F.U.D.), The White Paper, A Coin On A Mission, The Big Bank, and Jamie Sapphire & The Rod Of Truth.

Uncle Chris Productions is also looking for help if people would like to contribute to the new comedy series based on the original cryptocurrency. The production crew is looking for talented writers, editors, animators, and illustrators to keep the ball rolling and anyone can reach out to the team. While everyone’s bags are heavy and worth way less than last year, cryptocurrency fans can still lighten their hearts with a bit of laughter from this unique show about a lost bitcoin in search of his dad.

What do you think about the new series called “Bitcoin and Friends?” Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image credits: Bitcoin and Friends, and Youtube.

Now live, Satoshi Pulse. A comprehensive, real-time listing of the cryptocurrency market. View prices, charts, transaction volumes, and more for the top 500 cryptocurrencies trading today.