DATE:  29.03.2020, 11:29:16
TITLE: Peter Brandt calls the current crisis “an ideal storm” for bitcoin
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/peter-brandt-calls-the-current-crisis-an-ideal-storm-for-bitcoin/75511/

Nicely-known dealer and analyst Peter Brandt believes that the international crisis attributable to the coronavirus pandemic is essential for bitcoin and the cryptocurrency trade as an entire.

As Brandt wrote on Twitter, bitcoin could have “huge issues” if it can not reveal progress in opposition to the backdrop of a fall in the conventional monetary market.

The analyst expressed this opinion, answering the query of Morgan Creek Digital associate Jason Williams about how he assesses the conduct of bitcoin in latest days.

For BTC, that is the good storm. If Bitcoin can not rally on this, then crypto is in BIG bother. - Peter Brandt (@PeterLBrandt) March 27, 2020

“For Bitcoin, that is the good storm. If he doesn't reveal the rally, cryptocurrencies could have huge issues. ”

Earlier than that, assessing the state of affairs in the monetary markets final Friday, Peter Brandt wrote that the US Congress is in a “time capsule”, launched straight from the 1930s. Thus, he made a reference to the occasions of the Nice Despair, when, in opposition to the backdrop of the financial crisis, the US unemployment price rose to a document excessive of 26.7%.

The U.S. Congress is in a time capsule despatched from the 1930s Worth motion late Friday was: Notes - we’re headed to detrimental charges

Gold - look out above

Shares - pathetic - Peter Brandt (@PeterLBrandt) March 27, 2020

Earlier this week, after the Fed introduced its intention to proceed the coverage of “limitless” quantitative easing till the economic system recovers from the shock attributable to the coronavirus pandemic, Bitcoin confirmed progress, coming near $ 7,000. Nevertheless, in the future, the value of the first cryptocurrency went down - the fall on Friday night time turned out to be particularly sharp, when BTC for a brief interval went from $ 6,700 to $ 6,200. On Saturday, the value of bitcoin got here near $ 6,000.

Analysts don't exclude that the fall could proceed, citing the stage of about $ 4000 as a doable testing stage.

Subscribe to ForkLog's publication Twitter!