DATE:  29.03.2020, 17:05:32
TITLE: Porn Industry Thrives During Lockdown — These Sites Are Cryptocurrency-Friendly
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/porn-sites-cryptocurrency/

Porn Industry Thrives During Lockdown — These Sites Are Cryptocurrency-Friendly

Porn sites have been experiencing increased traffic as the number of people under lockdown or quarantine rises due to the coronavirus pandemic. Many of these sites accept cryptocurrencies, including Pornhub. The popular porn site currently offers residents of some countries free premium membership for a limited time to help them stay home during the covid-19 outbreak.

Also read: 2x Bitcoin — Wanna Double Your BTC to the Moon? Forget About It

Porn Site Sees Surge in Traffic Amid Coronavirus Lockdown

Lockdown and social distancing have increased traffic to adult websites, many of which accept cryptocurrencies. Recently, one of the largest free porn sites, Pornhub, began offering free premium membership to users in countries currently undergoing a coronavirus lockdown or quarantine, including France, Spain, and Italy. Premium membership offers benefits such as exclusive content, no ads, faster streaming, and high-speed downloads. Since last week, users could sign up using the site’s special “stay home” page and enjoy free content for a month. Immediately after the company announced this offer, its site’s traffic spiked. According to the company, more than 120 million people visit its website daily before the spike.

Moreover, the platform recently revealed that about 10% of its performers on Modelhub have opted to be paid in cryptocurrencies. Pornhub began heavily exploring accepting cryptocurrencies after Paypal stopped payouts to thousands of models last year. In January, the company announced that it had added USDT as a payout option. Users can also pay for premium membership with horizen, tron, or verge. Alternatively, they can pay via Pumapay, a crypto payment solution provider.

Cryptocurrency-Friendly Adult Sites

Besides Pornhub, several other large porn sites also accept cryptocurrencies. Among them is Sexlikereal (SLR) which focuses on virtual reality experiences. Subscription to this platform can be paid in over 50 cryptocurrencies through Coingate, including bitcoin, bitcoin cash, litecoin, XRP, ether, nano, and tron.

Similarly, Livejasmin and Manyvids also accept a wide range of cryptocurrencies. Livejasmin specializes in live streaming and webcam shows. Manyvids is a Canadian adult entertainment video hosting, live streaming, and e-commerce company. Other porn sites that accept cryptocurrencies include Naughty America, Chaturbate, and Camsoda.

Meanwhile, some adult film stars are openly pro-cryptocurrencies. Brenna Sparks, for example, has been relentlessly promoting cryptocurrencies to her co-workers and peers throughout the industry.

What do you think of crypto-friendly adult sites? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons, Pornhub

Use Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash to play online casino games here.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.