DATE:  31.01.2020, 21:14:13
TITLE: These Are the Most Traded Tokens on Decentralized Exchanges Right Now
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/these-are-the-most-traded-tokens/

These Are the Most Traded Tokens on Decentralized Exchanges Right Now

The decentralized exchange landscape is evolving fast, with new liquidity aggregators and relays enhancing usability while reducing slippage. Trade volumes are also strong across the leading ERC20 DEXs and Binance DEX. The bulk of this volume is captured by a small proportion of tokens, however, whose demand augurs well for the projects and the DEXs they dominate.

Also read: Ethereum’s Value Transfer Is Now Dominated by Stablecoins



Verasity Is Binance’s King of the DEXs

On Binance DEX, the decentralized exchange that operates on the eponymous Binance Chain, verasity (VRA) is out in front, with 19% of all trades. Verasity is an attention-based video and gaming platform that enables content creators to earn tokenized rewards. Rather than trying to create a crypto-friendly Youtube, a la Dlive, Verasity is designed to integrate into existing platforms such as Twitch, Youtube, and Vimeo.

Behind the scenes, Verasity has been busy, gaining an entry into Asia’s lucrative streaming market through a partnership with Jun Capital, while a token burn has seen 17% of VRA’s supply removed from circulation. In Q4 2019, the project reported a 20x increase in videos viewed and a 10x increase in wallet registrations. VRA is currently listed on six exchanges, with the volume on Binance DEX exceeded only by that on Hitbtc.

Stablecoins Dominate Kyber Network

In keeping with Ethereum’s evolution into a stablecoin network, the most traded coins on Kyber’s DEX are all dollar-pegged assets. The most popular of these is multi-collateral dai ($890K 24-hour volume), USDT ($384K), and USDC ($282K). This is followed by wrapped bitcoin (WBTC) and wrapped eth (WETH), with link the leading altcoin on Kyber, with $147K in trades. Kyber Swap – the token swapping platform created by Kyber Network – has processed over $500M of trades since launching, and in December added support for Ethereum Name Service (ENS) token transfers.

Maker and Augur Are Uniswap Favorites

On Ethereum token exchange protocol Uniswap, dai is the most traded currency ($420K), followed by Maker’s MKR governance token ($204K), Augur’s REP ($183K), and synthetix (SNX, $165K). Fifth and sixth spot are taken by stablecoins – SAI and USDC – before HEX makes an appearance at seventh with $115K in volume.

Unibright Tops the IDEX Charts

IDEX, the leading decentralized exchange for years, lost ground when it introduced KYC. The exchange nevertheless maintains a lead over its Ethereum counterparts, recording 24-hour volume of $738K. The leading token by far is unibright (UBT) with $264K. The token is up 55% in 24 hours, which accounts for its high trading volume, which has surpassed $1 million across all exchanges.

Unibright is an enterprise-oriented blockchain project that’s focused on helping businesses integrate tokenization and distributed ledger technology. It’s unclear why the UBT token has spiked in value, though speculative trading is the likeliest cause.

Uniswap and Token Aggregators Make Gains

Crypto Differ has published data showing that Uniswap was the biggest winner in December, increasing its volume by 33% and its traffic by 29%, while other Ethereum DEXs, save for IDEX, lost market share. Conventional Ethereum DEXs are also losing ground to token aggregators, which achieve the best rate for buyers by splitting orders across multiple DEXs in a single transaction. 1inch exchange is the leader here, seeing its volume increase 50% to $15M this month. It’s followed by DX.ag and Totle, the trio handling $1.7M in weekly volume.

DEX aggregator @1inchExchange volume is looking more and more like a 🏒 https://t.co/qmduAPB4AM pic.twitter.com/s5yZyDwvat — Dune Analytics (@DuneAnalytics) January 27, 2020

Decentralized exchanges still account for only a fraction of crypto trading, but the rate of innovation and ecosystem growth augur well. On Jan. 28, 0x launched its own liquidity aggregator, combining the order books of Kyber Network, Uniswap, and Oasis. As user experience and liquidity improve, and the defi movement gathers pace, DEXs can expect to break new records this year, even if they won’t be challenging CEXs anytime soon.

Do you trade on DEXs? If so, which platforms do you recommend? Let us know in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock and Crypto Differ.

Did you know you can verify any unconfirmed Bitcoin transaction with our Bitcoin Block Explorer tool? Simply complete a Bitcoin address search to view it on the blockchain. Plus, visit our Bitcoin Charts to see what’s happening in the industry.