DATE:  31.01.2020, 03:00:01
TITLE: Trustverse Token Now Listed for Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange and Users Can Win 1 Million TRV
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/trustverse-token-bitcoin-com-exchange/

Trustverse Token Now Listed for Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange and Users Can Win 1 Million TRV

The Bitcoin.com Exchange continues to rapidly expand its offerings. The latest asset to join it is the Trustverse token, which is now listed for trading on Bitcoin.com’s premier trading platform. To promote the success of the new listing, Trustverse is conducting a giveaway of 1 million TRV tokens.

Also Read: You Can Now Buy Cryptocurrency With Credit Card on Bitcoin.com Exchange

Bitcoin.com Exchange Lists Trustverse Token

Bitcoin.com Exchange has listed the Trustverse token for trading (TRV/BCH) on January 28, 2020. This AI-powered blockchain-based platform strives to create an “invest and relax” experience where investors can obtain the information they need in a comprehensible manner to make informed decisions.

Ultimately the project aims to build a universe of trust, hence the name. To achieve this goal, they have integrated a variety of services into the platform, which are all named after planets in the solar system.

Jupiter is their Digital Asset Analytics service that helps traders navigate complex indicators and markets by providing a comprehensive outlook on the crypto markets, similar to the weather forecast. When the market is bullish, Jupiter will show a sunny outlook, while bearish sentiment will result in an image of less clement weather.

The wallet complementing the platform is called Mars and provides users with control and transparency. Currently, the wallet can be used to store bitcoin, bitcoin cash and ERC20 tokens. In addition to enabling peer to peer transfers, the wallet offers escrow services.

The third planet in this universe is Pluto, a Wealth Management dapp helping people to properly take care of insurance and managing inheritance. To prevent losses of digital assets in case of death, Pluto allows users to define conditions in which private keys are released to their inheritors with the help of smart contracts.

Two of the offered services, Jupiter and Mars, have been integrated with the Samsung blockchain ecosystem, making them more broadly available. And Trustverse is working on soon adding the next two planets, Mercury and Neptune. In the joint platform, all services can be accessed via the token (TRV), which is used to pay for different financial services and to run smart contracts.

Bitcoin.com Exchange was launched in early September 2019 as an easy-to-use platform with world-class security and a powerful trading engine. The platform employs institutional-grade encryption, two-factor authentication (2FA) and IP whitelisting to keep user accounts secure at all times. Available digital assets include ADA, ATOM, BCH, BTC, EOS, ETC, ETH, LTC, ONT, TRX, USDT, WAVES, XLM and XRP.

To promote the success of the new listing, Trustverse is giving away 1,000,000 TRV tokens to users on the platform. Users with net deposits (deposits minus withdrawals) of over 50,000 TRV made during the activity period will share a pool of 1,000,000 TRV. The activity period ends 31/01/2020 at 23:59 (UTC). See full details here.

What do you think about Bitcoin.com Exchange listing the Trustverse token? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.