DATE:  12.03.2020, 11:54:11
TITLE: 3 Top-Ranked Mutual Funds for Your Retirement - March 12, 2020
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/3-top-ranked-mutual-funds-115411914.html

Our "Magnificent Retirement Mutual Funds" list includes some of the best managed and best performing funds around. If you're already invested in these, congratulations! But if you're just now discovering them, don't worry. When it comes to your retirement, it's never too late to start investing in the best.

How can you tell a good mutual fund from a bad one? It's pretty basic: if the fund is diversified, has low fees, and shows strong performance, it's a keeper. Of course, there's a wide range, but using our Zacks Rank, we've found three mutual funds that would be great additions to any long-term retirement investors' portfolios.

Here are the funds that have achieved the #1 (Strong Buy) Zacks Rank and have low fees.

MassMutual Premier Disciplined Growth R5 (MPGSX): 0.65% expense ratio and 0.45% management fee. MPGSX is a Large Cap Growth option; these mutual funds purchase stakes in numerous large U.S. companies that are expected to develop and grow at a faster rate than other large-cap stocks. MPGSX has achieved five-year annual returns of an astounding 12.82%.

AB Discovery Growth A (CHCLX): 0.95% expense ratio and 0.61% management fee. CHCLX is a Mid Cap Growth mutual fund. These funds aim to target companies with a market capitalization between $2 billion and $10 billion that are also expected to exhibit more extensive growth opportunities for investors than their peers. CHCLX, with annual returns of 10.47% over the last five years, is a well-diversified fund with a long track record of success.

Oppenheimer Gold & Special Mineral I (OGMIX): 0.75% expense ratio and 0.68% management fee. OGMIX is a Sector - Precious Metal mutual fund, typically investing in companies that are involved in the mining and production of precious metals like gold, silver, platinum, and palladium. With a five-year annual return of 11.71%, this fund is a well-diversified fund with a long track record of success.

These examples highlight the fact that there are some astonishingly good mutual funds out there. If your advisor has you in the good ones, bravo! If not, you may need to have a talk.

Do You Know the Top 9 Retirement Investing Mistakes?

Investing in underperforming mutual funds is just one of the key errors that can derail your retirement plans.

To learn more, read our just-released report: 9 Retirement Mistakes You Need to Avoid.



This report can help you sidestep these costly mistakes and potentially achieve your retirement goals. Get Your FREE Guide Now



Get Your Free (CHCLX): Fund Analysis Report



Get Your Free (MPGSX): Fund Analysis Report



Get Your Free (OGMIX): Fund Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment Research