DATE:  12.03.2020, 06:05:21
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Panther’s Reign Slot Machine by Quickspin
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-panthers-reign-slot-machine-by-quickspin/052106

The promise of instant win games is no doubt one of the most attractive aspects of online casinos. Now, to spice things more, Bitcoin Casino has added another similar deal – Panther’s Reign Slot Machine by Quickspin.

At first sight, it’s easy to get scared by the jungle and wild setting in the background but still, the game is quite enjoyable. However, some of the things to keep in mind is, this slot is highly volatile. Nevertheless, the design is friendly and offers max win potential even to newbies. Yes, first time players can have an opportunity to win big as long as they get to learn the ropes or the rules of the game.

Right in the introduction, Panther’s Reign Slot welcomes you with a theme indicating it is the latest slot they’ve unleased. While there are many interesting things with this slot one detail you can be sure of they have done is, they’ve made the game super real.

No cartoonish themes like what you would expect with the Wild Tome of the Woods or a utopian dance in some isolated part of the world and such as unrealistic themes. As in, this Quickspin’s version looks real, like finding yourself in a warm and dry place then in a short while you are trekking in a scary real rainforest.

Besides, it’s amazing that Quickspin has gotten the graphics perfectly right this time around. Well, they have always done a good job graphically but for Panther’s Reign, the design is quite spot on. This is consistent with the primary aim the company initially shared of creating more natural animal assimilation or in other words an animal fused game possibility.

After the first section, things leap again to become more lively with higher payout symbols such as the jaguar and monkey icons, the parrot and frog marks, among others. In Panther’s Reign Slot there’s also the 50 pay lines. Well, unlike other designs the thing that makes the pay lines a likely hit is the reel’s set up. That is, the casino has 4 to 5 unconventional row design.

The whole thing is quite an adventure. But wait, some developers are not as that happy with this slot and think that it has too many popular win options – around 1204. That’s on the lower side, the wins can be more since one can stake up to 5202 times.

You can play this game at BitcoinCasino.io