DATE:  12.03.2020, 15:59:00
TITLE: Bitcoin price comes crashing, when this should be glory days says Peter Schiff
URL:   https://www.kitco.com/news/2020-03-12/Bitcoin-Price-Comes-Crashing-When-This-Should-Be-Glory-Days-Says-Peter-Schiff.html

(Kitco News) - With bitcoin plummeting over 30% in a 24-hour period to trading levels of $5,683, the lowest level in 10 months, a longtime critic of the cryptocurrency said that the coin is showings its true colors.

"We've now answered the question that really wasn't a question in my mind, but there was a debate going on as to whether or not bitcoin was a safe haven, a store of value, an asset that people would flock to in times of trouble and financial turbulence," Peter Schiff, founder of EuroPacific Capital said during an interview with Kitco News' Daniela Cambone.

"The answer is, no, it's not a safe haven asset. It is a very risky asset. The price of bitcoin has collapsed by more than the stock market during the last several weeks and in fact, it's not even a non-correlated asset," Schiff said.

As of press time, the crypto was rebounding and currently trading at $6,112, down 23% on the day.

Schiff explained that the most well-known cryptocurrency has been trading throughout this crisis, as though it is very highly correlated with the sharply lower U.S. equities.

"When the stock market goes down, bitcoin goes down more. And then when the stock market goes up, bitcoin goes up, but it goes up less. So I don't really see what value bitcoin brings to a portfolio…[S]o it's trading the opposite of a safe haven. It's correlated to the risk assets only."

On Thursday, U.S. stocks fell sharply again after an address from President Donald Trump failed to suppress concerns over the possible economic slowdown from the coronavirus.

At the open, the S&P 500 traded down more than 7%, triggering a 15-minute "circuit breaker," which temporarily halted trading at the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is currently down nearly 2,000, or 8%. The Nasdaq Composite has dropped by almost 7%.

Many crypto enthusiasts believed the digital coins would be inversely correlated to stock markets. But economic confidence is also hurting cryptocurrencies.

"There is no place in anybody's portfolio for bitcoin, it's nothing more than a giant pyramid scheme which is what I've been saying from the beginning," Schiff said, not holding back words.

"Bitcoin is supposed to be skyrocketing and instead, it is collapsing. And that's got to call into question the validity of holding on to this asset."