DATE:  12.03.2020, 13:54:29
TITLE: Crypto Mining Providing Users with Flexibility for Mining Bitcoin, Altcoins
URL:   https://www.coinspeaker.com/crypto-mining-flexibility/

Crypto Mining is a platform that offers benefits to different target groups: beginners, enthusiastic home miners and large scale investors.

“How can I mine cryptocurrencies easily?” that’s a question most crypto enthusiasts have asked Google time and again. But once presented with ideas like “buy the best mining rig,” or “join a mining pool,” the user is often left more confused than when they had begun their search. Nonetheless, this has become a thing of the past thanks to Crypto Mining, a cloud mining service provider that offers its users a flexible way to dig cryptocurrencies.

Mining Still Poses Difficulties

It’s no longer news that one of the most profitable investments in the cryptocurrency space is mining. While several people may have an interest in this niche, very few can achieve the task of setting up a profitable mining business. The reason cannot be farfetched considering the rigid nature of mining that could almost cost an arm and a leg.

For starters, a business of this nature would require buying dedicated computer hardware or computer with remarkable specs, and also ensuring that the mining location offers cheap electricity. And if you can finally meet up the high expenses of setting up a mining rig, it could take weeks or months to finally get back your startup capital.

So what’s the way forward? Is it possible to mine Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, and other popular cryptocurrencies without buying sophisticated hardware? Can you mine these assets without toiling laboriously to create a conducive space for mining? The simple answer is yes! How’s that? Read on to find out.

Crypto Mining Provides a Reliable Solution to Miners’ Challenges

Crypto Mining is a cloud mining platform that was founded in 2015. And since then, it hasn’t looked back on its goal to provide an easy, secure, and sustainable way for miners to dig coins. Today, the platform has become an active mining ground for over 3 million people in about 100 countries. But what’s even more interesting, is the ability of these users to mine their choice coin or its forked version in a flexible way.

Crypto Mining Offers its Users Flexibility

Crypto Mining provides users with a convenient and sustainable way of mining cryptocurrencies in the following ways:

Secure Infrastructure and User-friendly Design

Security is everything, which is why Crypto Mining provides its users with a strong and safe facility to prevent hacking and manipulations. It makes this possible using the latest technology products to dig coins. Interestingly, the platform’s facilities have been set up in six countries to meet the user’s need for a smooth and seamless mining experience.

Coupled with that, the user-friendly nature of this platform itself makes it easy to use and navigate. Its design is kept minimal, yet it packs strong and competitive features to meet your mining needs. Once you sign into the platform, you can easily track the virtual assets you mine and the estimated ROI for these assets. Further, the investment tab and wallet features that display the user’s accumulated returns are something to look forward to.

Frees Users of Cumbersome Mining Responsibilities

Coin mining is no child’s play even though the profit can be very impressive. Crypto Mining understands how cumbersome it could get for an individual to manage a mining rig and maybe handle other daily operations simultaneously. For this reason, the company takes up mining responsibilities including security, infrastructure, insulation, energy efficiency, installation, etc.

Likewise, it takes on the risks that are associated with mining. This and many more are made possible with its offer of a reliable and trusted cloud mining platform that saves you time and money. Therefore, you can watch your crypto portfolio grow while doing less work. Moreover, this can result in a continuous stream of income for you.

Support for a Wide Range of Coins

You may only be out to find the best Bitcoin cloud mining service but it may interest you to know that Crypto Mining supports all Proof of Work (PoW) coins. It has algorithms to support the mining of these coins. As such, you can mine Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Dash, Monero, ZCash, and their forked altcoins.

Here’s what it looks like: A package such as Intermediate allows investors to choose between 10 of the most popular cryptocurrencies and about 70 other altcoins. Similarly, professional investors can mine 10 major cryptocurrencies and also choose from 150 altcoins. Obviously, that’s a lot to work with and at the end of the day, your task is to find the best coin that will yield the most profit.

Freedom and Flexibility to Users

Admittedly, it’s a good thing that you can mine a wide range of cryptocurrencies using Crypto Mining cloud services. But it gets better! In this case, users of the Crypto Mining platform can distribute the hash power they purchased between algorithms and coins. The aim of this flexibility is to maximize the returns of investments.

What’s more, the coins you earn are reflected in your wallet daily and you can withdraw your earnings whenever you want thanks to an instant withdrawal feature. Consequently, your funds are not tied down especially when you need it. And if you choose to end mining on this platform, it’s your decision to make.

Conclusion

Crypto Mining is a platform you should use today whether you’re a beginner, enthusiastic home miner, or large scale investor. This cloud mining provider makes your work as a miner easier and ensures that you dig digital assets in a secure manner. Therefore, if you prioritize easy access, simple use, and security, here’s an ideal cloud mining service for you.

Author: Shane Molidor Global Head of Business Development at BitMax & GDM. Formerly Global Head of FBG One, Business Development and Operations at Gemini Trust Company, LLC.