DATE:  12.03.2020, 09:15:07
TITLE: Why Coinbet24 is the Ultimate Bitcoin casino and Sportsbook platform
URL:   https://coinnounce.com/why-coinbet24-is-the-ultimate-bitcoin-casino-sportsbook-platform/

Safe bitcoin betting on Coinbet24.com

On the Coinbet24 Bitcoin betting platform, you can place bets on a variety of sports in bitcoins in a secure way. The bitcoin casino platform also offers users to play live table games, including poker, blackjack, roulette, baccarat, dice games, and more. The website is designed in a way so that you can enjoy the real-life casino experience from the comfort of your home.cr

Different Payment Methods

Coinbet24.com casino supports more than 30 cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash, and many more. The platform offers instant and frictionless deposits and withdrawals on the platform for users. Coinbet24 uses Shapeshift to process all the altcoin transactions. Along with cryptocurrencies, the online casino platform also accepts fiat currency deposits, which are processed via ecoPayz or Perfect Monday. Crypto withdrawals usually take 5 to 10 minutes, whereas fiat currency withdrawals take up to one day. Minimum deposits and withdrawals on the betting platform are 1mBTC.

Exciting offers for new and old users

Coinbet24 bitcoin casino offers various exciting bonuses and promotional offers for new and existing users. The platform gives a 100% deposit bonus up to 1 BTC on the first deposit. Coinbet24 also offers daily bonuses that boost the bitcoin betting odds to 20-30% over regular odds. The bonus is available for both sportsbook and casino players.

Huge library of games

Coinbet24 offers its users a wide range of real-time online games to select and play from. The games include Texas hold’em, Hi-Lo Switch, Bet on Numbers, Five Draw Poker, Multihand Blackjack, and many more. New games are frequently added on the platform. If you have a knack for any of those games, you stand a chance of winning a good amount of money.

Effective Customer Support Service

Coinbet24 provides effective customer support services to its users. The customer support service is available 24 hours, and if you face any trouble, you can reach them via live chat, email, or the contact us form on the website. The bitcoin casino platform has a very active customer care service, and the representatives reply to users within minutes, and if you are a regular player of the casino, then your request will be given priority.

Easy Registration Process

The registration process is quite simple on Coinbet24. A user is only required to give out his email address and country of origin to sign up on the platform. Before you are eligible for payouts, you just need to verify your email address.

“Bitcoin should be the “go-to” currency for any experienced bettor.”

As a bitcoin platform operator, Coinbet24.com helps people educate about the decentralized cryptocurrencies and their benefits. The website has a section dedicated to blogs that inform users about cryptocurrencies and how one should proceed with bitcoin betting on the platform. The bitcoin casino platform also has a crypto news page, where users can find weekly news about bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. The platform is playing a part in educating people about the importance of cryptocurrency in general that is not limited to placing bets.

Competitive odds with low margins on top leagues

The bitcoin sportsbook platform offers competitive odds with low margins on all the top leagues, including UCL, UEL, EPL, NBA, NFL, NHL, and many others from around the world. If you plan to bet big amounts, then you should consider placing bets in bitcoins as it offers more freedom in creating limits. The casino platform holds slots and games from the best providers around the world.

Coinbet24 – the ultimate bitcoin casino and sportsbook platform

Coinbet24.com was launched back in 2015 as a bitcoin betting casino and sportsbook platform, and it has complete five successful years. The bitcoin casino platform is among the best betting platform out there with a wide range of games and various features that make user experience memorable.

Start Betting Now

Note: Gambling can be addictive, and the cryptocurrency market is volatile in nature. Therefore, one should always play responsibly and with personal analysis.