DATE:  08.10.2019, 09:30:48
TITLE: NIXT - Nexinter Launches Exchange Offering Using SLP
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/nixt-nexinter-exchange-offering/

NIXT - Nexinter Launches Exchange Offering Using SLP

Today, NextHash and Bitcoin.com have entered a technical partnership to design and structure the NIXT utility token.

NIXT token is being listed in its fully operational exchange Nexinter on top of Bitcoin Cash, using the Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) framework. The Simple Ledger Protocol whitepaper was published last July and the project launched in August 2018.

NIXT token is being launched as part of the ongoing IEO by Nexinter, that is a global digital trading Exchange that belongs to NextHash Group. NIXT token holders will receive the immediate utility to trade digital assets at discounted fees, get a branded debit card and more importantly they will be able to participate in private placements of Digital Security Offerings.

Private placement of digital securities, is the early step for investors to buy a new category of digital asset called “tokenised stocks” at the best possible market price before trading occurs. Throughout the Nexinter IEO, anybody that holds NIXT token will be allowed to join at early stage into Tokenised stock offerings. Only KYC and AML are required, because compliance is of utmost importance at NextHash and Nexinter.

Bitcoin Cash token-issuers greatly benefit from SLP because the token system does not interfere with the BCH chain’s consensus rules. SLP tokens and their transactions have metadata attached to them, which gives greater data transparency and verification.

As part of the partnership, Roger Ver, Executive Chairman and Founder of Bitcoin.com and industry expert, has agreed to join the Advisory Board of Nexinter to oversee and facilitate the launch of the NIXT utility token on top of Bitcoin Cash.

Daniele Mensi, CEO of Nexthash, commented on the partnership: “We are very excited to partner with Bitcoin.com, being among the first to leverage the great potential of SLP-based token because our priority is to pave brand new avenues of customer interactions being focused on compliance and transparency. We believe SLP is the perfect framework to start delivering this promise on our NIXT utility token and we are very excited to work together with Roger and the rest of the Bitcoin.com team!”

About Bitcoin.com

Bitcoin.com is a company that provides Bitcoin Cash (BCH) related services across various premium world wide web domains including but not limited to bitcoin.com. It has lately launched its own exchange that predominantly trade BCH and BTC, and lauched a world class mobile wallet to allow immediate payments by crypto across retails stores of many countries.

About Roger Ver

Roger Ver is the first investor in bitcoin and bitcoin-related startups and an early promoter of bitcoin. He has been known as “Bitcoin Jesus” for his prominent support of bitcoin adoption. He is one of the most influential industry leader and now chairman of Bitcoin.com.

Follow us on social channels:

Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/company/nexinter

Twitter: https://twitter.com/NexinterDigital

Telegram https://t.me/Nexinter

Email: support@nexinter.com