DATE:  06.11.2019, 10:30:16
TITLE: Tokens.net Seals Partnership With Bitcoin.com as an Official SLP Partner
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/tokens-net-seals-partnership-with-bitcoin-com-as-an-official-slp-partner/

Tokens.net Seals Partnership With Bitcoin.com as an Official SLP Partner

Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) is a protocol for token creation on the Bitcoin Cash (BCH) chain, promoting tokenization of assets in a simple and effective way. The Simple Ledger Protocol provides electronic wallets, block explorers, social media bots, token faucets and back-end infrastructure, as well as protocols for token creation and consulting for token resources and development.

Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) and Simplified Tokenization

As tokenization is slowly but steadily gaining in popularity thanks to transparency and increased functionality in terms of storing and distributing value, the Simple Ledger Protocol offers a simplified and efficient way of tokenizing assets with greater integrity as opposed to traditional forms of asset trading and accounting. Any value can be tokenized and SLP offers the right tools for the tokenization of gaming assets, gift cards, digital media rights, company stocks and shares, creating a highly functional digital market. SLP tokens are created on the Simple Ledger Protocol that is built on the Bitcoin Cash chain, enabling prompt and efficient management, token creation and trading. SLP tokens on the Bitcoin Cash chain are equivalent to ERC20 type tokens on the Ethereum network.

SLP provides efficiency, integrity and transparency through enabling support for light wallets, full audibility for on-chain transactions, simplified token systems with user-friendly tools, token loss prevention, flexible issuance, multi-signature addresses and peer-to-peer exchange of tokenized value within a permissionless environment.

Tokens.net is Joining the SLP Alliance

Tokens.net exchange is proud to be a part of the development of tokenized assets and a decentralized digital market by becoming one of the first cryptocurrency and token exchanges to adopt the SLP protocol. Through this implementation, Tokens.net is joining the broader market of digital assets with SLP implementation, towards bringing tokenization to broad masses. Tokens.net is partnering with Bitcoin.com in order to bring SLP tokenization to mainstream markets and towards mass adoption.

About Tokens.net

Tokens.net is operating under the slogan “Trusted European Crypto exchange”, justifying their principal motto with top safety, high-security standards, utmost reliability, and 100 per cent transparent trading volume. Founded by crypto pioneers, the exchange represents a trusted platform for trading, backed by a team of professionals with a proven reputation. Based in the UK, this European crypto exchange takes pride in transparency, security and unique user-friendly design with various trading tools for experienced traders and beginners.

Contact Email Address

sebastjan.ivanusa@tokens.net

Supporting Link

https://www.tokens.net/