DATE:  29.03.2019, 12:29:34
TITLE: Cryptojobs Is a Platform With 1,300 Vacancies in the Cryptocurrency Industry
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/cryptojobs-is-a-platform-with-1300-vacancies-in-the-cryptocurrency-industry/

Cryptojobs Is a Platform With 1,300 Vacancies in the Cryptocurrency Industry

The sight of new job ads being published regularly, at a time when some businesses have been downsizing to cope with the crypto winter, is a positive sign. The importance of job boards connecting companies with professionals is growing, with Cryptojobs one such platform.

Also read: Coingapp Allows You to Exploit Arbitrage Opportunities Between Exchanges

1,300 Ads on a Crypto Job Board

Cryptojobs (crypto.jobs) is among the leading platforms specializing in posting new openings for those who wish to begin or continue their career in the cryptocurrency and blockchain industry. The website currently lists almost 1,300 jobs and adds new vacancies almost every day.

Users can filter the ads by categories, which include tech, design, business development, sales, marketing, operations, customer support, analyst, and other, as well as browse them by skills. They can also toggle between all jobs and remote positions, some of which are restricted to a particular territory.

Each job posting contains a description of the respective position and the specific requirements for the candidates. The ads also indicate if the job is a full-time or part-time engagement, a temporary contract or an internship.

Cryptojobs enables companies to post new jobs free of charge. A $199 paid upgrade provides them with unlimited applications, highlighted ads on the homepage, push notifications to subscribed candidates and other additional services. Job seekers can upload their resumes thanks to a recently added feature.

Have you used the services of a crypto-specific job platform? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the mentioned companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can even lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.