DATE:  12.11.2019, 15:31:50
TITLE: Podcast: What Bitcoin, Blockchain Mean for China
URL:   https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/podcast-what-harnessing-the-bitcoin-blockchains-power-could-mean-for-china

Ring in the new bitcoin halving cycle the right way: with us!

Bitcoin Magazine presents non-stop coverage of Bitcoin’s third Halving with hours of commentary and analysis from Bitcoin 2020 speakers and some of our closest friends.

The Halving (sometimes referred to as “ the Halvening ”) is the predetermined moment when Bitcoin’s block subsidy gets cut in half. The halving of Bitcoin’s block subsidy occurs every 210,000 blocks (approximately every four years) and is a key feature of Bitcoin.

In this episode of the Bitcoin Magazine Podcast, Dave Hollerith talks with Alex Gladstein of the Human Rights Foundation about China’s President Xi Jinping publicly expressing admiration for blockchain technology. This news drove the bitcoin price at the beginning of November 2019, but Gladstein is wary about what China’s public praise could mean for cryptocurrency in general.

Gladstein recognizes that blockchain technology by itself is really just a mechanism for control and surveillance of financial data. He believes, from a human rights perspective, that the real value of blockchains comes from decentralization, which is essential to democracy. He stated that Bitcoin is the greatest example of a decentralized blockchain and that, in the wrong hands, this technology would be used as a tool for tyranny instead of for freedom.

Follow Gladstein and Hollerith on Twitter. Read more about the issues discussed in this episode here:

This podcast content is for informational purposes only. You should not construe any such information or other material as legal, tax, investment, financial or other advice. Nothing contained in this presentation constitutes a solicitation, recommendation, endorsement or offer by BTC Media, The Let’s Talk Bitcoin Network or any third-party service provider to buy or sell any securities or other financial instruments.