DATE:  03.04.2020, 13:30:50
TITLE: 1xBit Casino Review 2020: One of the Largest Bitcoin Casinos
URL:   https://blockonomi.com/1xbit-review/

Since 2016, 1xBit has been operating its online gambling platform that has been growing rapidly as the cryptocurrency space has taken off. It is constantly innovating to try to become the best offering in the crypto gambling space.

There is a great selection of different game types, with the selection within each of these categories also being extensive. There are more than 20 different cryptocurrencies that you can use through 1xBit, providing you with a great level of flexibility and anonymity.

As well as being an online casino, there is also a live dealer casino and a sportsbook that you can check out.

This 1xBit review takes a deep dive into each respective section of this offering to see where it shines and what areas are potentially lacking. This will allow you to determine if 1xBit is a good fit for you and your needs.

Visit 1xBit

1xBit Casino

While sports betting appears to be more of a central focus for 1xBit, there is also an extensive casino offering.

For slots players, there are thousands of different video slots to check out. Many of the biggest titles in the space today are on offer, with new games being added on an almost daily basis.

All different types of slots can be played, such as 3D slots, classic titles and jackpot slots. You have many of the best game developers supported through 1xBit, such as Oryx Gaming, Evolution Gaming, AWG, RTG Slots, Spinmatic, Playson, Betsoft and Pragmatic Play.

You can quickly filter through games by their popularity, developer or game type. The games are all played through your browser and the gameplay is smooth and seamless. For fans of jackpot slots, there are many different options, with fan favorites such as Jazzy Fruits being on offer.

There are even some games that have seven-figure jackpots for a lucky player to win. All of these games can also be played for free if you do not want to put your money on the line. You can even play four of these games at the same time.

There are also other popular casino games on offer. You have a few dozen different roulette variants to check out, with some of the more niche options being Turbo Roulette and 3D European roulette.

There are dozens of different blackjack variants on offer, such as multi-hand and double exposure three-hand variants. Baccarat fans have more than 30 options to check out, one of the most extensive offerings you will see on any online casino.

Other types of popular game types you can check out through the 1xBit offering include bingo, keno, drop & wins, casino poker games and Sic-Bo. There really is something for everyone in terms of this casino offering.

1xBit Live Casino

Live dealer casino gameplay has become very popular in recent years. 1xBit has been embracing this trend and offers an extensive live dealer offering.

There are live dealer tables from many different software developers, such as Evolution Gaming and Pragmatic Play. When you enter into the live casino section at 1xBit, you will quickly see the different game types on offer.

Each given variant will showcase on the surface the betting limits that are in place, so you can quickly find a limit size that suits your preferences. Each game type has an impressive amount of different variants and live dealer options.

You can decide on what geographical region you want to play in for example. All of the streams are of HD quality and allow for an immersive experience. There are betting limit options for absolute beginners and high rollers alike.

The main game categories for the 1xBit live casino offering include blackjack, roulette, baccarat, casino poker, jackpot games, Sic-Bo, Monopoly Live, Over/Under and a variety of other niche games. Overall, you cannot go wrong with the 1xBit live dealer casino experience, being one of the best around in the space today.

1xBit Sports Betting

There is a comprehensive sports betting offering at 1xBit. Every major sport is well-catered for. You will find markets for even more obscure sporting events. Each of the major sports will have a massive selection of different markets whether you are looking at futures betting or placing bets on specific games.

There is a live betting section that allows you to place bets on a multitude of different markets while the game is ongoing. Many of the different sporting events can be live-streamed through the platform. There is also an interface that showcases the action in real-time for that given event.

The odds are generally pretty good when compared to other platforms. If you want to cut your losses or cash out your winnings early during the middle of a given sporting event, you have the cash-out option. There is also a sports betting exchange for those people who are inclined.

One of the areas of the 1xBit sportsbook that is garnering a lot more attention as of late is the esports section. This is an area that a lot of online gambling platforms are focusing on more and more as the sector’s popularity is exploding.

There are usually a few dozen different markets for you to bet on for a given esports match. All of the leading esports are on offer for betting purposes. There is also live betting for these events.

Overall, this is a sportsbook that ticks most of the boxes you could wish for as a sports bettor.

Additional 1xBit Offerings

There are a few different aspects of the 1xBit online gambling offering. The 1xGames section is another way for you to play a variety of self-developed casual casino games.

Oftentimes, there are special cashback offers built into this offering. There are countless niche games such as Dominoes and Yahtzee that you can play in this section.

You can also partake in the online sports betting pools through the Toto section. This offers jackpots for a range of different sports and esports.

There is also a binary options aspect to the offering, as well as a selection of popular online lotteries, such as Powerball and Mega Millions.

Finally, there is a range of virtual sports that you can try out when there is a lack of actual sporting events taking place. Overall, this is one of the most comprehensive collections of random types of games and offering that you will find with a crypto casino.

Welcome Bonuses

If you are signing up for a 1xBit account for the first time, then there is a welcome bonus offer that you can avail of.

To receive this offer, you will need to create an account and then deposit at least 5 mBTC or an equivalent sum in a different cryptocurrency. You will be able to avail of deposit bonuses for each of your first four deposits.

Your initial deposit will be matched 100%, up to a max bonus of 1 BTC.

Your second deposit is matched 50% up to 1 BTC,

Your third deposit matched 100% up to 2 BTC

Your fourth deposit is matched 50% up to 3 BTC.

Therefore, you can earn up to 7 BTC in bonus funds if you max out these offers.

Before you can cash out these funds, you will need to meet the wagering requirements. You need to wager the deposit amount at least 40 times inside of 30 days of making the respective deposit.

If you make another deposit while you have not yet wagered the bonus funds from the previous deposit, you will not be entitled to any more deposit bonuses.

There are certain types of games that will not contribute 100% to wagering requirements. For example, you cannot meet wagering requirements at all by playing live dealer casino games.

Overall, this is a decently sized welcome bonus offer with wagering requirements that are somewhat achievable and about standard for the sector.

Regular Promotions and Loyalty Program

There are also promotions for existing 1xBit customers. These will often change, keeping things fresh. You will find different offers for casino games and sports betting products. For example, for sports betting bonuses, you will get insurance on your bets, price boosts, cashback offers and free bets.

For casino games, there will often be free slots spins, bonus funds given to you to use for certain games and cashback bonuses. There is a great variety of promotions that will keep you interested in the long-term when it comes to the 1xBit offering.

There is a VIP cashback program in existence on 1xBit. This will see you earn loyalty points when you play certain games. One of the main exceptions is that you will not earn any loyalty points when you are playing 1xGames. There is a tiered system as part of this program, with the perks increasing the higher the tier level you reach.

The rate at which you earn points will also increase with the greater the level you reach. You will be able to redeem points for cashback when you hit certain levels. There are also other types of rewards that you can receive as part of this loyalty program.

Payment Methods

As 1xBit is mainly a crypto casino, it will not come as a surprise that there are many different crypto options open to you when it comes to funding your account.

When it comes to depositing funds to your 1xBit account, there are 68 different crypto exchanges that are linked to 1xBit. This figure will vary depending on what country you are residing in.

This will allow you to quickly exchange fiat into crypto if you need to do so or to quickly transfer from your e-wallet to your 1xBit account. Most of the main exchanges are on offer.

While 1xBit does not charge any fees for conducting deposit and withdrawals some of the exchanges may have their own fees that you need to consider in addition to the network fees.

For most of the exchanges, there will be a minimum required deposit of 1 mBTC. Most of them also do not have a cap on the max amount of funds that you can add to your 1xBit account.

The cryptocurrencies catered for on the site are:

Bitcoin

Litecoin

Dogecoin

Dash

Ethereum

ZCash

NEM

Bytecoin

Sibcoin

Digibyte

Bitcoin Gold

Bitcoin Cash

Ethereum Classic

BitShares

Verge

QTUM

Monero

STRATUS

Ripple

Tron

Tether

USD Coin

True USD

PAXOS ST

Usually, it will take less than three hours for these funds to be credited to your online gambling account. There is currently no way for different players on 1xBit to transfer coins to one another.

The withdrawal process is very similar to that of adding funds to your account, with similar caps being in place. Withdrawals will often be processed in less than an hour, which is ideal.

Overall, 1xBit only focuses on crypto transactions as opposed to a lot of other crypto casinos that also offer fiat transaction options.

Security

As 1xBit is predominantly a crypto-based online gambling platform, the goal is to allow you to play the best online casino games and have access to the optimal betting options while doing so in an anonymous manner.

There is no need for you to provide excessive information when signing up for an account. You simply can choose a username and a password and you will normally be good to go, having the ability to use a dummy email address.

You do not have to inform that platform about your home address or full name for example.

All transactions will, of course, be tracked through the blockchain and the process of conducting transactions through 1xBit is pretty straightforward. The online gambling platform is part of the Curacao government’s licensing and oversight regime. The best in firewall and SSL encryption technology is used at 1xBit to make sure that account funds are protected.

If you have any issues or concerns about the security of 1xBit, you can get in touch with the security department via email and have your concerns eased. If you wish, you can add two-factor authentication onto your account to give it an extra layer of security.

Mobile Offering

If you want to place bets or play casino games while you are on the go, there is a mobile app for 1xBit that caters for both iOS and Android users.

These apps can be downloaded in a matter of seconds and allow you the flexibility that comes with mobile gambling. The library of games is effectively the same on the mobile offering, with everything being optimized for the smaller device.

The navigation system is very easy to use, with the search filters and categories being your friend when you are searching for particular types of games. If you don’t want to download an app, you can also place bets through your mobile device’s web browser on the 1xBit platform.

Usability

The 1xBit desktop platform is nicely designed, with a sleek color scheme allowing the text to really pop out from the background. Each respective category of gambling is well able through the menu system. This means that you are not wasting time trying to find certain aspects of a given offering.

The filtering system is one of the best around. For casino games, you are able to add certain games into your favorites so you can quickly find them the next time that you are playing.

There is also a recently played games feature that showcases the games you have played in the recent past. You can also narrow down the games offering by the specific type of game you are looking for or by using the search bar to find specific titles.

You can also see sections that showcase the most popular games on the platform, as well as the newest arrivals.

The process of playing casino games is very smooth, with the graphics general being very good. As there are so many different developers, you can find a certain game style or aesthetic that suits your eye and focus on these games.

The live dealer casino has HD quality streams that make it feel like you are actually sitting at the casino table in the flesh. The sports betting section is very clearly laid out and the process of placing bets using the bet slip couldn’t be easier.

The live betting interface is very smooth and you have access to all of the info or data you could need when betting on a given sports event live. The process of making transactions is seamless and will only take a matter of minutes to do.

The site speed as a whole is good, allowing you to navigate the platform with ease. There is a handy system also where you can quickly change the language of the site, the odds settings, check your account statistics and update your account balance.

Customer Support

If you have any questions or queries about the 1xBit offering, there is not really an FAQ section for you to check out. In the footer of the website, there are useful links that will help resolve a lot of issues or questions you may have. Otherwise, you can get in touch with the 1xBit support team that works around the clock.

You can send them an email for more detailed issues or you can use the live chat feature to get instant feedback for more simple requests and issues. The response times for the emails is usually within 24 hours of having sent it. There are also a number of social media accounts showcased on the website that can also be contacted.

Conclusion

As you have seen, 1xBit is one of the best crypto casinos and sports betting platforms in the space today. It ticks all of the boxes a gambler could ever want when it comes to the range of different types of gambling on offer.

There is great depth to each of these sections also in addition to the expansive range of game types. Slots players, sports bettors, table game fans and many other gambling fans will fall in love with what 1xBit has to offer.

The offering is almost unparalleled when it comes to online gambling platforms.

There is a welcome offer in place that covers your first four deposits with appropriate bonuses and the platform is always running exciting promotions for its existing players.

The loyalty program also comes in handy if you are planning on playing a lot on the 1xBit site. The desktop and mobile sites are both nice and fast and easy to use.

Conducting transactions is easy, with many exchanges and cryptocurrencies being offered. 1xBit takes your security seriously and allows you to gamble online in an anonymous manner.

Overall, you will be hard-pressed to find a better crypto gambling platform than 1xBit.

Visit 1xBit