DATE:  03.04.2020, 07:44:26
TITLE: 3 Altcoins To Consider In This Time Of World Crises ⋆ ZyCrypto
URL:   https://zycrypto.com/3-altcoins-to-consider-in-this-time-of-world-crises/

Advertisement

Amidst the world economic crisis, one thing crypto investors look for is digital assets that can stand the test of time. The current COVID-19 pandemic has negatively affected major market prices with panic selloffs causing investors to dash into exchanging their crypto holdings for cash.

The massive selloff ripped the crypto market off billions of dollars in losses over the past weeks, leaving most people to wonder if things will get better for the crypto market prices to recover.

There is no reason to think that the market prices will not fully recover, or this crisis will even bring the crypto market to an unfortunate end. However, choosing the right altcoin is vital to your successful HODLing journey. Here are three altcoins that you may need to consider during this time of crisis.

Ethereum (ETH)

EOS (EOS)

Binance Coin (BNB)

Ethereum is still one of the top cryptocurrencies and second-best by market capitalization. Although many altcoins dropped back as Bitcoin rallied in February, Ethereum was able to scale to a new 2020 high. ETH is currently in high demand, and by its low supply, it can bring many gains with the next bull run.

EOS is still an altcoin with a high potential this year. It appears to be on every list as a promising altcoin. It is reported that, if big players such as Amazon and Uber move to the blockchain, EOS will be their focal working point.

Advertisement

Furthermore, Binance Coin has been ticked by most experts as an immeasurable digital currency. The cryptocurrency market has witnessed a significant selloff that keeps trading platforms very active. As Binance is one of the top cryptocurrency exchanges which offers more favorable rates in the market, BNB is set for immense growth.

Cryptocurrencies are classified as high speculative assets, and as such, investors should do more research before investing in any coin.

Nevertheless, with the newly effected cases of the pandemic reducing drastically in Asia, it brings a kind of hope to investors as the Asia continent shoulders a large part of the crypto community.