DATE:  03.04.2020, 16:11:58
TITLE: Binance Confirms Upcoming Launch of Bitcoin Mining Pool – Crypto.IQ
URL:   https://cryptoiq.co/binance-confirms-upcoming-launch-of-bitcoin-mining-pool/

Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao (CZ) confirmed in a Tweet Wednesday that Binance will be launching a Bitcoin mining pool in Q2. This news comes just weeks away from Bitcoin’s third halving event. Rumors had been swirling in the last few days about yet another potential Binance venture as it completes a recently announced acquisition of CoinMarketCap.com.

This move by Binance doesn’t come as a complete surprise as it is following in the footsteps of its competitors, Huobi and OKEx. Both of those exchanges launched mining pools in late 2019 and are now among the most productive pools.

Furthermore, Binance has been regularly expanding its line of products. In the last year alone it has added staking and lending features, as well as a futures market and previously, its charity arm. Binance has been aggressively adding through acquisitions to position itself as a one-stop-shop for all things crypto.

There are growing concerns about centralization, however. Binance and Coinbase alone control such a large part of the crypto ecosystem’s infrastructure that they can act as single points of failure in times when the system is stressed. CZ has stated his awareness of this concern in the past and Binance has outlined a long-term decentralization strategy.

Overall, this seems like a good move for Binance. It appears to have endless capital and has managed its own growth in the industry brilliantly since its launch in 2017 to become the most dominant crypto exchange. Consolidation into the strongest hands is inevitable in any industry. If Binance’s decentralization strategy is sincere and viable, the industry will be the better for it. Most experts would probably agree that centralization among Bitcoin miners is a more serious problem and Binance’s foray into the practice will improve the situation.