DATE:  03.04.2020, 07:00:57
TITLE: Bitcoin Price Analysis: BTC/USD Near-Term Bullish Targets » BitcoinerX
URL:   https://bitcoinerx.com/price-analysis/bitcoin-price-analysis-btc-usd-near-term-bullish-targets/

Bitcoin is gaining traction off its bounce from the ascending channel on the 4-hour time frame but has encountered resistance at the 38.2% extension. Stronger bullish momentum could still take it to the next upside targets from here.

The 100 SMA is below the 200 SMA, though, so the path of least resistance is to the downside. In other words, support is more likely to break than to hold. If so, a reversal from the climb might follow.

Then again, the gap between the indicators is narrowing to reflect slowing bearish pressure and a potential bullish crossover. In that case, bitcoin could carry on with its climb to the 61.8% extension at $7,422 or the 78.6% level that lines up with the channel resistance. Stronger bullish momentum could take bitcoin to the full extension at $8,390.23.

Volume has ticked higher in recent sessions, but it didn’t seem enough to sustain the rally. Stochastic is already indicating overbought conditions or exhaustion among buyers, and the oscillator is starting to turn lower to signal a return in selling pressure. ADX is still below 25, so range-bound action might follow.

Price action among riskier assets has been mixed these days, with stocks still turning lower and commodities slightly higher on crude oil rallies. Bitcoin has previously tracked the performance of higher-yielding assets in that it rallied during a risk-on environment or sold off in a risk-off scenario.

Still, bitcoin has another ace up its sleeve in the form of the halving on May 2020 that could draw longer-term positions. After all, investors would be keen to hold the altcoin in anticipation of its value doubling as mining rewards are cut in half. For now, it appears that market participants are holding out until the actual date of the halving or waiting for better prices to enter.

Images courtesy of TradingView