DATE:  03.04.2020, 12:00:42
TITLE: Bitcoin SV rises before halving as Verge, Monacoin keep up the pace
URL:   https://eng.ambcrypto.com/bitcoin-sv-rises-before-halving-as-verge-monacoin-keep-up-the-pace/

Bitcoin SV continued to have a bright April after recording another consistent day of price rise. However, its price movement wasn’t shared by other altcoins in the market. For instance, while Verge continued to rise, Monacoin registered only negligible change over the past 24-hours.

BSV registered an incline of 8.99 percent over the past 24-hours after its valuation rose from $168 to $183. Further, its market cap improved and crossed the $3 billion mark, with its trading volume found to be extremely active with a registered value of $2.88 billion.

According to the MACD line, a bullish reversal could be on the cards for the token as the MACD line crossed over the signal line, at press time. The rally could be due to the fact that its halving event is less than a week away.

Verge token recorded a similar rise as well as its price rose to $0.00271 from $0.00251. The market cap remained well below the $50 million and was recorded to be $43 million. And while the token hiked by 7.31 percent, the trading volume was extremely low for the token.

The Parabolic SAR remained bullish, at the time of writing, as the dotted markers were found to be under the candles. Further, the CMF suggested that capital outflows continued to be higher than capital inflows.

At press time, Verge continued to be ranked 82nd on CMC’s charts, after having dropped 20 places since February.

Monacoin’s charts highlighted the formation of a descending triangle, something that suggested that the price could ascend higher in the short-term. The coin registered only a minor hike over the past 24-hours, and was being traded at $1.21, at press time. The market cap of MONA token remained $79.8 million, with a measly 24-hour trading volume of $3.7 million.

The RSI suggested that buying pressure for the token was high at the time of writing, with the MACD line recently undergoing a bullish reversal with the signal line.