DATE:  03.04.2020, 09:43:45
TITLE: Bitcoin returned above $ 8K as a recovery of traditional markets
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/bitcoin-returned-above-8k-as-a-recovery-of-traditional-markets/

[ad_1]



Bitcoin is experiencing a recovery alongside traditional financial markets the day after it hit two-month lows.

The highest cryptocurrency by market value is currently trading near $ 8,070, which, according to CoinDesk's Bitcoin price index, represents a 6 percent gain from lows near $ 7,625 registered on Monday.

Important European stock indices such as the German DAX and the French CAC are also flashing green at the time of going to press, while the S&P 500 futures are currently up over 4 percent.

Oil prices are up 7 percent and 10-year US yields are at 0.70 percent, an increase of almost 35 basis points from Monday's record low of 0.35 percent.

However, gold has fallen nearly 1 percent to $ 1,665 an ounce.

The recovery may bring hopes for new fiscal stimulus from the US authorities pointed out by the well-known analyst Holger Schaepitz. President Trump Announced Monday The White House and Congress will meet on Tuesday to consider major economic relief measures that may include a reduction in wage tax.

Bitcoin could extend today's gains if stocks pick up speed again. In addition, the macro view of some crypto fund managers remains optimistic in May due to the halving of premiums due in May (a 50 percent reduction in offers).

"I expect Bitcoin and the broader crypto markets to recover quickly against the broader equity markets due to continued broader acceptance and strong sentiment," said co-founder and managing partner of the Hong Kong-based Kenetic mutual fund, Jehan Chu, to CoinDesk.

"I think this short-term macro market shock will make it difficult for funds and startups to raise money, but in the medium to long term, it will absolutely strengthen the use of blockchain technology and crypto," added Chu.

The long tail on the daily candle on Monday indicates bear fatigue. In addition, the MACD histogram on the four-hour chart prints higher lows below the zero line, a sign of a weakening of the declining dynamic.

A stronger recovery to USD 8,200 (Monday high) cannot therefore be ruled out. However, Bitcoin will remain bearish as long as prices are below resistance to the head and shoulders cutout, which is currently at $ 8,480.

On the other hand, Monday's low of $ 7,625 is the main support. A breach could lead to more sellers joining the market and dropping to $ 7,000.

Disclosure: The author does not have a cryptocurrency at the time of writing.

correction: The Bitcoin low of $ 7,625 was hit on Monday, not Friday.

Disclosure Read More CoinDesk is a leader in blockchain news and a media company that strives for the highest journalistic standards and adheres to strict editorial guidelines. CoinDesk is an independent operational subsidiary of the Digital Currency Group that invests in cryptocurrencies and blockchain startups.





[ad_2]