DATE:  03.04.2020, 11:26:01
TITLE: Bitluck Mining Company Updates Bitcoin (BTC) Mining Gear, New Contracts Released
URL:   https://u.today/bitluck-mining-company-updates-bitcoin-btc-mining-gear-new-contracts-released

One month prior to the Bitcoin (BTC) halving, the EU-registered Bitluck cloud mining service has upgraded its hardware in order to keep operations profitable

Cover image via stock.adobe.com

The upcoming third Bitcoin (BTC) halving will reduce miner rewards by 50%. As a result, the outdated mining equipment will be out of the game. In order to protect their customers' investments, Bitluck miners have purchased and installed new Bitcoin (BTC) mining ASICs by the WhatsMiner crypto mogul.

New efficiency, new contracts

Within the framework of a long-term partnership, Bitluck mining facilities are equipped with WhatsMiner M30S mining rigs. This model of ASICs is extremely efficient as its energy efficiency is about 38J/Th. As a result, electricity costs are adjusted. The new line of contracts was proudly presented by the Bitluck team.

This new offer includes a 120-day contract for remote mining with 50 Th/s, 100 Th/s and 500 Th/s of mining performance to borrow as a limited offer. Also, the prices for lifetime Bitcoin (BTC) mining contracts for 20 Th/s, 100 Th/s and 500 Th/s have been adjusted since the new ASICs have been launched.

According to the project team, this novelty will accelerate the negative impact of both the Bitcoin (BTC) price crash and the upcoming third halving event on the profitability and security of cloud mining.

Great opportunities in hard times

The Bitluck team is also targeting the expansion of its mining operations in CIS states. For instance, new Bitcoin (BTC) mining rigs will be launched soon in Kazakhstan. This country has very low electricity rates, which will result in lucrative offers for remote mining programs.

Now, the Bitluck cloud mining provider operates large mining entities and data-centers all over the globe. Its activities are licensed and meet all of the legal requirements of corresponding jurisdictions.