DATE:  03.04.2020, 18:34:22
TITLE: Bitwise Withdraws Bitcoin ETF Application With the SEC
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/bitwise-withdraws-bitcoin-etf-application-with-the-sec/79356/

Bitwise Asset Administration has withdrawn its software with the Securities and Change Fee (SEC) for its proposed bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF).

The San Francisco agency requested the withdrawal in a submitting posted with the SEC on Tuesday, whereas NYSE Arca – the ETF's sponsor – has additionally withdrawn the related 19b-Four submitting for the fund.

Whereas the information could disappoint these in the funding group eager to see the first ever bitcoin ETF in the U.S., the information is no surprise. The proposal was rejected by the SEC in October, though the regulator stated quickly after that it was reviewing the rejection.

The proposal didn't meet authorized necessities to forestall market manipulation or different illicit actions, the fee stated in its rejection announcement.

"That is the subsequent step in the direction of our long-term purpose of bringing a bitcoin ETF to market, and we plan to refile our software at an acceptable time. We're presently working exhausting on answering the questions that the SEC raised in its 112-page response to our preliminary submitting," in accordance with Matthew Hougan, Bitwise's international head of analysis.

"We stay totally dedicated to the improvement of a bitcoin [exchange-traded product], and can replace you when we've extra particulars on our timeline," he stated.

With the motion, Bitwise leaves only one bitcoin ETF proposal earlier than the SEC.

The bitcoin and U.S. Treasury bond ETF deliberate by Wilshire Phoenix continues to be below overview and is anticipated to be dominated on by the SEC by Feb. 26. The agency has beforehand instructed CoinDesk its ETF has been constructed with mechanisms to handle the SEC's issues over ETFs based mostly on digital property, and hopes it should see approval. READ US House Committee to Hold Hearing on Blockchain Benefits for Small Businesses

The SEC has to this point rejected no less than a dozen bitcoin ETFs.

Edit (11:55 UTC, Jan. 15 2020):This text was up to date with remark and extra info from Bitwise.

Disclosure Learn Extra The chief in blockchain information, CoinDesk is a media outlet that strives for the highest journalistic requirements and abides by a strict set of editorial insurance policies. CoinDesk is an unbiased working subsidiary of Digital Foreign money Group, which invests in cryptocurrencies and blockchain startups.