DATE:  03.04.2020, 08:58:42
TITLE: Cash is king during the COVID-19 crisis, but Bitcoin (BTC) is next on the throne: Mark Yusko
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/cash-is-king-during-the-covid-19-crisis-but-bitcoin-btc-is-next-on-the-throne-mark-yusko/

[ad_1]



Mark Yusko says cash is king due to the coronavirus crisis, but we'll see Bitcoin in the crown at some point

content A historic economic shock

Bitcoin will end up on the throne

Hedge fund manager Mark Yusko believes that cash is king during the corona virus-induced liquidity crisis last interview with CNBC's "Trading Nation".

However, Bitcoin is on the throne during the impending economic impact.

A historic economic shock

On March 14, a Manhattan-based Bank of America branch reported that this was temporarily the case $ 100 banknotes ran out.

However, Yusko believes that it is not too late to make money quickly, since the number of confirmed coronavirus cases worldwide has already exceeded 1 million.

The Dow, one of the major stock market averages, just had its worst first quarter in history with a skid of 23.2 percent.

While Fundstrats Tom Lee predicts a quick one Recovery already in AprilYusko seems to believe that there will be a very "lengthy" bear market that can only keep up with the Great Depression that struck the world in the 1930s.

"The upcoming economic shockwave will be like nothing any of us have ever experienced, as it will be very similar to the 1930s."

Bitcoin will end up on the throne

Despite the fact that cash is now a safe haven for investors, Yusko is certain that Bitcoin can serve as a hedge against the possible collapse of the financial system.

"Look, we think Bitcoin is a great asset as part of your portfolio (not your entire portfolio). One of the things about Bitcoin is that it is an opt-out. It is insurance against the collapse of the financial system."

The American investor claims that the massive dose of monetary incentives could weaken Western Fiat currencies. As reported by U.Today, the US Federal Reserve has triggered an unlimited QE associated with near zero interest rates.

Eventually Bitcoin will rise to its rightful throne.