DATE:  03.04.2020, 12:25:08
TITLE: Digital Blockchain Publication Crypto Gazette Hosts Ledger Nano X Giveaway
URL:   https://www.coinspeaker.com/digital-blockchain-publication-crypto-gazette-hosts-ledger-nano-x-giveaway/

Crypto Gazette is organizing a Ledger Nano X giveaway that will offer ten of you the unique opportunity to win a Ledger Nano X.

In the Face of Crisis

The present economic situation has led to several prominent efforts in innovation take centerstage in the fight against COVID-19, from blockchain-enabled donation tracking in China, to Bitcoin direct donations to the Italian Red Cross in China, and even the United States government naming blockchain management systems as a critical industry in the emergency response.

Blockchain tech has truly emerged as an important innovative technology that will be crucial to the world that emerges from this crisis. And after the initial drop in the market, crypto’s ongoing recovery also gives hope that Bitcoin and crypto can be the world’s answer to spiraling inflation and banking woes.

Supporting Blockchain Adoption

Crypto Gazette, the online publication with all your blockchain news in one place, has always been supporting blockchain adoption since it was launched in 2018. And, recognizing that more interest will be focused on crypto, especially with the coming crisis, just as Bitcoin was born from the throes of a global economic crisis, Crypto Gazette will continue to promote the disruptive industry that will not only bring forward the financial future, but will include wider access to people all over the world.

To signify the appeal of crypto and to promote even more awareness, Crypto Gazette will be giving away a Ledger Nano X digital asset storage device to TEN lucky readers at the end of April 2020.

Ledger is one of the oldest and most trusted names in cold storage for cryptocurrency – cold denoting that these wallets are seldom used to connect to the Internet, thereby making it less susceptible to malicious attempts to access the funds. Hot wallets, on the other hand, are always connected to the Internet, increasing its vulnerability to hacking, phishing and other attempts to hijack access.

Because a Ledger is a physical wallet that is technologically siloed away from prying unauthorized connections, it is recommended by experts as the minimum recommended to store your precious crypto. For safety and security at an affordable price, the Ledger Nano X does not come more highly recommended.

A Ledger Nano X for 10 Crypto Gazette Readers

To further encourage the online audience to consume more knowledge about the world of digital currency and innovative blockchain technology, Crypto Gazette is giving away ten lucky readers a Ledger Nano X cold wallet. Getting yourself into the running for one of these wallets is easy. All you need to do is:

Tweet about this giveaway on Twitter. Follow Crypto Gazette on Twitter. Enter your email on this site.

If you’ve ever wondered what it means to have the best possible protection for 1,000 digital assets on a device that can also store 100 apps and connect to smartphones via Bluetooth, then you need to check out the Ledger Nano X.

About Crypto Gazette

Crypto Gazette serves up industry news and analysis, following all the happenings in politics and the economy, keeping readers up-to-date with the freshest insights on financial markets, stock exchange, and exchange rates. A Google News Approved Website, Crypto Gazette promotes transparency and cooperation to deliver results-based crypto news.

About Ledger Nano X

The Ledger Nano X combines the best that crypto security can offer, yet with surprising ease-of-use and flexibility. Manage your digital assets on the go, with peace of mind.

Visit the Crypto Gazette website to read more, or follow them on Facebook to keep up with the latest!