DATE:  27.05.2019, 17:30:42
TITLE: PR: BitcoinHD Launches New POC Consensus
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-bitcoinhd-launches-new-poc-consensus/

PR: BitcoinHD Launches New POC Consensus

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

One of the most influential blockchain conferences – Consensus 2019 – has just ended. Leading figures from all over the worlds of business and technology are still discussing the stories that emerged during the event, on the blockchain market, tech development and more.

Consensus is the core spirit of blockchain. The Consensus conference is named after this principle. While paying tribute to the technology, it inspires people in the blockchain industry to communicate, innovate and solve problems.

After attending the Consensus conference, the BHD Community held an invitation-only party, ‘New Consensus, New Era’, at the Hilton Hotel NY on 14th May. This party gathered people from all over the world who believe in POC consensus, hard disk mining and BHD, and gave them a good opportunity to connect in person.

Gary, BHD Community Initiator and Hpool COO, spoke at the gathering, stating that the POC consensus adopted by BHD will lead a new era. Compared to ASIC mining, hard disk mining costs much less. The hard disk is also the most decentralized mining hardware in the world. He believed that only POC could realize the initial vision of Nakamoto – ‘one person, one vote’ – and called on people to join the POC ecosystem.

In the era of POW, BTC was at the forefront of the scene; now the rise of POC brings a new trend. BHD is the pioneer of this revolution, with new consensus and new mining structures. BHD will become the ‘BTC’ of the POC consensus mechanism.

Media Contact:

Website: http://www.btchd.org/

Email: master@btchd.org

Twitter: https://twitter.com/@btchdcommunity

Telegram: https://t.me/BitcoinHDofficial

Discord: https://discordapp.com/invite/pWde3gn

Supporting Link

http://www.btchd.org/

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.