DATE:  15.04.2020, 13:01:09
TITLE: Bitcoin exchange ErisX gets added to TradeStation Crypto
URL:   https://decrypt.co/25420/bitcoin-exchange-erisx-gets-added-to-tradestation-crypto

ErisX has just been added to TradeStation Crypto, the cryptocurrency arm of the popular TradeStation platform.

ErisX is a digital asset spot and futures trading platform that also offers clearing services. As a regulated futures exchange, ErisX targets institutions, individuals and brokers that prefer to trade on a platform that is accountable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).

TradeStation Crypto is billed a gateway to crypto markets and allows customers to trade cryptocurrencies on several markets (now including ErisX) using a single account. TradeStation Crypto is most commonly used by institutional and high-volume traders, since it waives maker fees for those with an account balance of over $100,000, below that, traders are subject to a 0.5% maker/taker fee—far higher than most popular cryptocurrency exchanges.

Customers of TradeStation Crypto will now be able to access ErisX spot markets on the platform, and will be able to execute trades on these markets by using TradeStation as an intermediary. ErisX hopes this will make cryptocurrencies more accessible to retail customers registered on TradeStation. Supported assets include Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum and Litecoin.

“Making our safe, regulated, familiar market structure available through TradeStation expands the opportunities to trade digital assets to a wider audience that values surveilled, fair and professionally run market centers,” said Thomas Chippas, CEO of ErisX in the press release.

Last December, ErisX became one of just a small handful of crypto derivatives trading platforms to offer physically delivered Bitcoin futures. As the name implies, these Bitcoin futures are settled in BTC, whereas most other platforms, like Binance and BitMEX, instead settle their futures in USD or stablecoin-equivalent. As of yet, the platform hasn’t been able to capture the same success as Bakkt—the current market leader in physically delivered Bitcoin futures.

Today’s announcement marks the latest in a series of moves designed to improve retail access to cryptocurrency markets. Just last week, ErisX was added to Fidelity Digital Assets, a platform that provides enterprise trading and Bitcoin custody services to large businesses and institutions. Just like with TradeStation Crypto, Fidelity Digital Assets customers will now be able to access the ErisX cryptocurrency spot market