DATE:  15.04.2020, 14:26:00
TITLE: Cumbernauld reports two bitcoin extortion cases
URL:   https://coinnounce.com/cumbernauld-reports-two-bitcoin-extortion-cases/

Cumbernauld is a large town in North Lanarkshire, Scotland, and it is the tenth most populous locality in the country. Communities Officer Neil MacLeod stressed that two people had contacted officers in the space of a weekend regarding a suspicious message they had received on their computer. Bitcoin scams have increased quite exponentially over the years as the crypto industry continues to grow.

“Most of these cases go unreported.”

The police reported that this is a crime that frequently goes unreported. However, the police did not reveal the specif details about the bitcoin extortion, but it was revealed that the recipient was asked to transfer £2000 via Bitcoin transfer. The police urged people who received such e-mails to report to law enforcement as they are simply a con. Neither of the recipients of the message played into the hands of scammers and did not give out any funds.

FBI warns about increasing coronavirus crypto scams.

Earlier this month, the Federal Bureau of Investigation issued a warning saying that the scammers are using coronavirus pandemic to fraud people of their money. Several fraudsters are luring in victims to invest in Ponzi crypto schemes in the midst of a global pandemic. The scammers are luring in investors by playing on the fear of public and scaring people about the economic crisis and asking to invest their savings in Ponzi schemes.

Earlier, Facebook also filed a lawsuit against an Indian-based person for running advertisements on the social media platform that redirected people to a website promoting crypto investments and scaring people about looming recession. Since the crypto industry has become more mainstream, the number of crypto scams has also increased quite substantially. Scammers rely on bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies for illegal activities as it provides them with certain anonymity because of the nature of crypto transactions.