DATE:  15.04.2020, 13:34:21
TITLE: EOS Assumes Top Position In CCID Crypto Rankings Despite Bitcoin Fall
URL:   https://www.cryptonewsz.com/ccid-crypto-rankings-see-bitcoin-drop-three-positions-eos-assumes-top-spot/

EOS, Ethereum, and TRON remained at the top of the latest crypto rankings by China’s Center for Information and Industry Development (CCID). The index, in its 17th edition, ranked the most popular public blockchains per three categories — creativity, applicability, and basic technology, while the overall rating was determined as the sum of scores within each criterion.

The update of selected public chain projects has slowed down in recent months, which meant that the overall index did not experience much of a change according to CCID.

Although some may still need a little introduction to EOS, it was once again on top of the list when it comes to the level of technical blockchain realization, leaving both Ethereum and TRON behind and scoring 105.6 points.

Bitcoin dropped another three positions since February and now ranks 14th, while Bitcoin Cash moved up from 34th to 31st place, following its ”halving” event only days ago.

Applicability Still an Issue for EOS

On the other hand, EOS did not do very well on the scale of applicability despite topping the index overall. In this category, EOS came third, ranking after TRON and Ethereum.

The rankings also showed that scores of Dacoin, Quantum Chain, Application Chain, and BitShares saw a substantial increase during the observed period, even though the overall basic technology index had a slight drop since the previous edition of the index.

The most significant increase in terms of applicability was seen in BitShares and IOST that took 13th and 8th positions, respectively, while Ethereum came first in the ranking, followed closely by TRON, Xiaoyi, Nebulas, and Dash.

Bitcoin Creativity Riding High

EOS and Ethereum once again did well in terms of creativity, coming second and third with scores of 29.1 and 29, respectively. They were only beaten by the undisputed champion of this category — Bitcoin. It ranked first with a remarkable score of 42.4.

In terms of creativity, Monero, Litecoin, Sia, Dash, and Lisk all scored above 20 points, while Hcash disappointed with a score of 1.2, emerging as the worst performer in this category.

The research and analysis conducted help with our understanding of the current state of cryptocurrencies and the industry at large, and the CCID group will be able to offer better technical consulting services to technology developers, research institutes, business enterprises, and government agencies as a result of this assessment.

Multiple organizations work in collaboration with CCID to create this evaluation, such as the China Software Evaluation Center and the CCID think tank. In January, CCID released a report stating there were more than 33,000 registered blockchain companies.