DATE:  15.04.2020, 18:27:46
TITLE: New Bitcoin Card from Visa
URL:   https://www.somagnews.com/new-bitcoin-card-visa/

Fold, one of the financial companies in San Francisco, has established a new partnership with Visa. This partnership between Fold and Visa can be enjoyed by crypto money supporters. Because Fold aims to increase the use of Bitcoin with this partnership.

Will Distribute Bitcoin

According to Forbes’ news, Fold recently joined the Fintech Fast Track program of Visa and will issue a new Visa card under this program. People will be able to get Bitcoin using this card.

Nowadays, many debit / credit cards give a certain amount of points to the person who uses them with each use. People can spend the points they have accumulated on their cards later as they wish. Here is the new debit card that Fold will issue. But the difference is this: When people spend with this card, they will earn Bitcoin, not points.

Bitcoin Savers

Whether Bitcoin is digital gold or digital money is quite controversial. Some say that Bitcoin can be used as a currency, while others argue that BTC is actually a use area similar to gold.

This San Francisco-based company actually managed to find the middle ground between the two sides. Fold CEO Will Reeves says:

“People are not shopping with Bitcoin right now, but they want to accumulate Bitcoin.”

So people will be able to earn BTC using the Visa card and accumulate it as if they were buying gold. But those who wish can also use Bitcoins from this card as a currency:

“Because Bitcoin has no expiration date, people can accumulate the Bitcoins they collect on their cards or use them in their next shopping. This gives consumers more choice and more flexibility. ”

One of the reasons Fold’s new agreement with Visa is so interesting is that these Bitcoins are tax-free. According to the news of Forbes, since these Bitcoins are not sold in any way, people will not have to pay taxes for the BTCs they have accumulated on their cards.



