DATE:  15.04.2020, 06:00:39
TITLE: USD Larger Bearish Retracement » BitcoinerX
URL:   https://bitcoinerx.com/price-analysis/bitcoin-price-analysis-btc-usd-larger-bearish-retracement/

Bitcoin made lower highs and lower lows to trend inside a descending channel on its 1-hour time frame and looks ready to test the resistance at $7,000. Technical indicators suggest that the downtrend could continue.

The 100 SMA is below the 200 SMA to confirm that the path of least resistance is to the downside or that the selloff is more likely to gain traction than to reverse. Price has climbed above the 100 SMA as an indication of slight bullish pressure, but the 200 SMA lines up with the channel top to add to its strength as resistance.

Volume is still subdued, so the correction could keep going before market interest increases on a test of resistance. Stochastic is turning higher without reaching the overbought region, though, so buyers could be eager to return. ADX is on the move down to reflect a return to market consolidation.

Bitcoin appears to be taking its cue from risk assets as it staged another bounce, along with other higher-yielding stocks and commodities. Another correlated asset to watch is gold, which is rallying close to record highs at $1,800 these days.

Also note that bitcoin is approaching the halving of mining rewards next month, which could draw even more buying interest. Previous instances have resulted to doubling or even tripling the value of the coin, so bulls could be keen to position ahead of the event.

Still, much of the market focus is on coronavirus-related updates, as well as stimulus efforts from governments and central banks trying to cushion the blow of the outbreak on the economy. More easing efforts seem to be dragging bitcoin south as this makes stocks and commodities more attractive, at least in the short-term.

Market fundamentals appear to be in favor of bitcoin in the longer-term, though, as the likely recession could spur another wave lower in traditional assets.

Images courtesy of TradingView