DATE:  28.03.2020, 14:26:11
TITLE: London Block Exchange Placed Into Compulsory Liquidation
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/london-block-exchange-placed-into-compulsory-liquidation/74992/

The corporate previously often called London Block Exchange (LBX), which confronted a lawsuit from one among its collectors, is being liquidated.

Generally known as Dragon Funds Ltd. since July, the agency introduced Thursday that it had been positioned into obligatory liquidation on Jan. 31. Paul Cooper and Paul Appleton of David Rubin & Companions had been appointed as joint liquidators earlier this week by the U.Okay.'s Secretary of State for Enterprise.

In a press release that has now fully changed its web site, the corporate mentioned: "The Joint Liquidators and their staff are working towards resolving clients’ issues, together with the restoration of any sums owed, as a matter of precedence."

LBX launched in 2017 after elevating greater than £2 million (roughly $2.6 million USD) from traders, in keeping with Enterprise Insider. The corporate had initially deliberate to situation pay as you go playing cards permitting customers to buy with cryptocurrencies, however it pivoted in 2018 to develop into a cellular change for U.Okay. traders.

In April 2019, LBX was taken to court docket by one among its collectors in a bid to get well a debt. Then-CEO Benjamin Dives, who ran the corporate till the liquidation order, informed CoinDesk on the time that £9,900 (roughly $12,900) had not been paid on time. He additionally denied rumors the corporate was dealing with liquidation.

Podcast host Peter McCormack had claimed the identical month that LBX was "bancrupt" (in a tweet now deleted) and that workers had not been paid since 2018. The corporate declined to touch upon these claims. READ Crypto Exchange Upbit’s Operator Eyes Blockchain in OTC Securities Trading

LBX's submitting historical past at Firms Home, the nationwide registrar for companies within the U.Okay., has not been up to date to incorporate the obligatory liquidation order.

CoinDesk has approached Dives for remark and can replace this text if a response is acquired.

Disclosure Learn Extra The chief in blockchain information, CoinDesk is a media outlet that strives for the very best journalistic requirements and abides by a strict set of editorial insurance policies. CoinDesk is an unbiased working subsidiary of Digital Forex Group, which invests in cryptocurrencies and blockchain startups.