DATE:  11.07.2019, 14:00:40
TITLE: Edge Wallet Eases Bitcoin Purchase With LibertyX & MoonPay
URL:   https://bitcoinist.com/edge-wallet-eases-bitcoin-purchase-with-libertyx-moonpay/

Bitcoin Wallet Edge Wallet Eases Bitcoin Purchase With LibertyX & MoonPay

Digital wallet operator Edge announced that it has integrated two new options – LibertyX and MoonPay. Both additions will enable Edge wallet users to buy bitcoin and cryptocurrencies with fiat money.

Edge Adds LibertyX for US Users and MoonPay for Non-US Users

On Wednesday, Edge announced via a blog post signed by Brett Musser that the team integrated LibertyX and MoonPay to its digital wallet infrastructure. The move aims to support Bitcoin and cryptocurrency adoption by allowing more people to “onboard safely” into the crypto space in more ways.

LibertyX is a product by Moon, Inc that connects crypto holders with US merchants and ATMs. The option enables Edge wallet users to buy bitcoin with fiat money and debit cards. LibertyX operates the largest network of Bitcoin ATMs, cashiers, and kiosks in the US. It helps users buy up to $3,000 worth of bitcoin within minutes.

Edge also integrated MoonPay, a service operated by Moon Pay Limited. The option allows its digital wallet users in the EU, UK, Canada, and South Korea to buy a range of cryptocurrencies with ApplePay and some credit cards.

The supported coins with MoonPay are BTC, ETH, XRP, USDC, BAT, BCH, BNB, DAI, EOS, LTS, TrueUSD, and XLM.

Updated Version Has Improvements

Besides the integration of the new options, Edge also fixed several bugs and made some improvement in the design.

Thus, the updated wallet application v.1.8.3 has addressed an issue where custom added coins wouldn’t show up after logging back in. Also, the team fixed a send error bug that could be experienced when the application returned from the background after a long period.

Edge, formerly known as AirBitz, provides a multi-coin wallet. It can be accessed through mobile devices that use iOS or Android operating systems.

Currently, the wallet supports Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Bitcoin Cash, Monero, Ripple (XRP), Feathercoin, Zcoin, Dash, Augur REP, Wings, and Indorse.

In May of this year, Edge wallet announced that its European users could sell bitcoin directly to their Visa credit card via Simplex, which has been an exchange partner for years.

Do you think the recent update will help Edge increase its contribution to bitcoin adoption significantly? Tell us in the comments section below!

Images via Shutterstock, Twitter: @EdgeWallet