DATE:  11.07.2019, 09:30:17
TITLE: PR: Crypto Exchange Bithoven.com Enables Margin Trading
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-crypto-exchange-bithoven-com-enables-margin-trading/

PR: Crypto Exchange Bithoven.com Enables Margin Trading

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Bithoven.com a progressive and high-tech cryptocurrency trading platform, has reported on the launch of advanced Margin Trading services on multifunctional MetaTrader 5, with maximum leverage 1:20 and BTC as margin nominal currency for more scalable and convenient buy and sell operations.

Registered platform users are able to open either Demo or Live margin accounts. By trading on Demo conditions, crypto traders can build up and refine successful trading strategies with zero risks, and by doing so, learn to effectively analyze market movements, support and resistance lines etc. Going Live opens up a rich and diverse trading environment with real market conditions. Here, traders are allowed to use trading robots/expert advisors, subscribe to trading signals and use copy-trading. Leveraged trading is fully compatible on all devices (web, mobile and desktop).

Built on the first-class practices of blockchain security and development, Bithoven.com facilitates the use of the latest and all-in-one trading platform MetaTrader 5, which features a great number of trading charts, timeframes, market depth, economic calendar, order-hedging etc. Registered users can maximize their potential return on investment by using the following margin tools ꟷ BTC/USD, ETH/USD, LTC/USD, XMR/USD, BCH/USD, ZEC/USD, DASH/USD, XRP/USD, EOS/USD, BCH/BTC, DASH/BTC, ETH/BTC, XMR/BTC and ZEC/BTC.

Further, there are no trading limits for margin trading accounts. Traders are free to trade either manually or apply algorithmic trading for large-scale data analysis, auto take profit and stop loss. What is more, the option of virtual hosting ensures round-the-clock connection to a trade server and an uninterrupted power supply.

Ever since its launch, crypto exchange Bithoven.com has progressed exponentially and has gained a reputation among many traders for its quality services. High liquidity portfolio in the order book guarantees instant trading and flawless order execution, thereby rendering precision and effectiveness. The platform renders professional online trading services and is widely recognized for its intuitive interface, cryptocurrency transaction speed, professional and dedicated customer care services and quality products. It has gained further momentum and received the Certificate for BEST CRYPTO START OF THE YEAR.

Contact Email Address

customercare@bithoven.com

Supporting Link

https://bithoven.com/

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.