DATE:  08.01.2019, 15:44:25
TITLE: London City Airport Sees Record-Breaking Passenger Numbers
URL:   https://news.finance.co.uk/london-city-airport-sees-record-breaking-passenger-numbers/

Advertisment

The London City Airport accounted for a record number of passengers last year. The records show that a total of approximately 4 million passengers used the airport.

The figures are comprised of both arriving and departing passengers. It represents an increase of 6.4 percent over the previous year and the highest ever that was recorded by the 31-year-old airport.

The number of flights that pass through the airport decreased by 5,000 over the same period. The passenger growth stemmed from larger aeroplanes and higher load factors.

The growth of the airport is set to continue throughout the year with the introduction of a number of new routes.

Yesterday, two new services started. LOT Polish Airlines started a Warsaw route and Eastern Airways is now operating a Newcastle service for Flybe. The new routes will later be joined by services to Vilnius and Budapest.

British Airways is also planning to add four additional Embraer 190s to their fleet as part of wider investment in BA CityFlyer, its subsidiary. It is set to increase the number of seats from London City by as much as 20 percent.

The figures were announced by International Airlines Group, the owner of Iberia, Aer Lingus, and British Airways. It showed an increase of 8.1 percent on the December passenger numbers year-on-year despite a small decline in load factor.

An increase in the number of leisure passengers has also contributed to the growth of the airport, with approximately half of the customers of the airport consisting of leisure and tourist passengers.

The popular outbound leisure destinations included Ibiza, Malaga, and Florence, while Edinburgh, Dublin, and Amsterdam were the most popular routes overall.

The chief executive of London City Airport, Robert Sinclair, stated: “In what was a remarkable year for London City Airport, we have seen demand reach a new peak, our airlines invest in new services, and passenger satisfaction increase.”

He added: “It’s proof that the fundamentals of London City – speed, convenience, connectivity and excellent customer service from the heart of London – remain very strong.”

London City Airport is set to undergo a £500 million development that is scheduled for completion in 2022. It will allow the airport to accommodate an additional two million passengers every year and more than 30,000 additional flights.

The new infrastructure includes eight new aircraft stands, a terminal four-times the size of existing facilities and a parallel taxiway that is aimed to improve the efficiency of the runway.