DATE:  18.04.2020, 08:12:44
TITLE: A number of Bitcoin Scams Reported: Newtown Police Exercise
URL:   https://fintechzoom.com/fintech-news-bitcoin-news/multiple-bitcoin-scams-reported-newtown-police-activity/

NEWTOWN TOWNSHIP, PA — Police in Newtown Township reported the next latest exercise:

April 9

A Newtown Township resident contacted police to report an e-mail she obtained from an unknown individual. The e-mail contained threats to her laptop system and demanded $19,000 in Bitcoin to keep away from an assault. Police suggested the resident that this can be a frequent rip-off and instructed her to delete the message and never reply to it.

At roughly 11 p.m., police initiated a pedestrian cease on Decrease Dolington Highway on two topics strolling in the direction of Frost Lane. On account of the cease, suspected marijuana and drug paraphernalia was discovered and confiscated for proof. Expenses are pending lab outcomes.

April 11

A consultant on the Bucks County Blind Affiliation on Freedom Drive reported {that a} locked garments donation bin had its lid torn open. The complainant reported catching two lady stealing donations from it previously.

April 13

Police responded to a Clearview Drive residence for the report of a theft. It was reported that somebody stole a rail from the resident’s again fence. Police noticed the cut up rail fence and a horizontal rail lacking. The entire worth of loss is roughly $15.

Two separate Newtown Township residents contacted police to report rip-off emails they obtained. The e-mail sender claimed to have the residents’ passwords to pornographic web sites. The emails additionally threatened to ship movies of the residents utilizing the web sites to all of their contacts, until they paid $1,900 in Bitcoins. Police advise residents that that is the Sextortion Bitcoin Rip-off. When you obtain an e-mail just like this, delete the e-mail, don’t ship any cash, and alter your entire passwords. The e-mail addresses utilized in these scams are sometimes faux and unable to be additional investigated.

April 14

A Newtown Township resident contacted police to report that an unknown get together fraudulently rented a automotive utilizing her id. The sufferer discovered of this when she obtained a letter from the rental firm stating that the automobile was not returned. An investigation is ongoing at the moment.

A Newtown Township resident contacted police to report a fraud. The complainant obtained an e-mail from an unknown supply that said a Verizon account was opened in her identify together with her Social Safety Quantity. The complainant contacted Verizon straight, and so they confirmed that an account was opened in her identify. Verizon requested a police report with a view to shut the account.

April 15

A Newtown Township resident contacted police to report a fraud involving the theft of his cellphone quantity. He additional reported that somebody opened a $5,000 dwelling fairness mortgage/line of credit score by means of Santander Financial institution and tried to get one other $5,000 out once more. Santander Financial institution is conscious of this and is addressing the matter.

April 16

Shortly earlier than 1:00 a.m., police had been dispatched to the realm of Kirkwood Drive for a noise criticism. Upon arrival, police positioned the supply of the loud music and made contact with the accountable topic, who agreed to show the music down.

A Wrightstown Township resident contacted police to report an tried fraud. The resident defined that she obtained an e-mail from an unknown individual and was informed to electronically mail $1,000.00 of Bitcoin foreign money to an internet account. If she didn’t comply, her account info can be launched. The resident instantly acknowledged this e-mail as a rip-off however was stunned to see a password she generally makes use of listed there. Police suggested the resident to verify her financial institution accounts to make sure that all latest transactions had been respectable. Police additionally suggested the resident to dam the e-mail tackle, to verify her credit score historical past for suspicious exercise, and to vary her passwords. “A number of variations of this rip-off have been reported this week. Please observe that scams similar to these are frequent. When you have not suffered a loss, they don’t must be reported to police,” officers stated.