DATE:  18.04.2020, 14:37:30
TITLE: Bitcoin Cash (BCH) 2020 to 2022 Deliverables focus on P2P Electronic Cash
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/13641/bitcoin-cash-bch-2020-to-2022-deliverables-focus-on-p2p-electronic-cash/

Bitcoin ABC is working hard to deliver a scaling plan for Bitcoin Cash for the next 2 years. They have presented the 2020 to 2022 timeline for deliverables. They claim that their progress depend upon finding solutions to solve very complex problems that are rarely guaranteed.

The Bitcoin ABC 2020 plan claims that the plan is fully funded with the funding in hand by 30 April 2020. They express that they are ready to attract, hire, and financially commit to a rare and high-quality engineering talent that they needed. However, they say when available. They acknowledged that they recently lost multiple attractive candidates who were, in reality, only available within a small window.

Sydney Ifergan, the crypto expert, tweeted: “The deliverables timeline proposed by Bitcoin ABC 2020 to 2022 is focused optimistically on Building Bitcoin Cash infrastructure for a world of P2P electronic cash. Hard Times, but Optimistic.”

Bitcoin ABC is the software for Bitcoin Cash Nodes.

Roger Ver Tweeted: “Governments which prevent the ownership of gold commit an immoral, dictatorial act. – My grandfather in 1970. Governments which prevent the ownership of crypto commit an immoral, dictatorial act. – Me in 2020.”

In turn, someone commented that he remembers the governments banning gold twice before. The commentator opined that the governments might repeat it. He also opined that when the national coins come, Bitcoin might be banned arbitrarily.

Roger Ver, BCH also tweeted a Venn Diagram on Covid19 in his tweet, where he expressed that there are people who believe the virus is very real and dangerous and that there are people who believe that the government is using the virus as an excuse to take our rights. He clarified that he is standing at the point of intersection of these two opinions.

Bitcoin Cash (BCH) Hash Rate Drop

A common concern about what will happen to the BCH with the hash rate drop, the reply by a community member was “not much.” Further clarifying, The BCH hash rate only dropped because the BTC halving hasn’t happened yet. That means it is more profitable for miners to switch to BTC until the reward halves. It doesn’t matter which coin is the ‘Real Bitcoin’ because mining is all about profits.

Concerning BCH, Roger continues to promote that Bitcoin Cash Transactions will soon have privacy so strong that there will be more potential combinations than there are atoms in the universe. Further, reinstating on the fast, cheap, reliable, and private factors.

Advertisement