DATE:  18.04.2020, 13:42:46
TITLE: Bitcoin (BTC) Can Assist SME and Reset Collapsing System: Jimmy Tune
URL:   https://fintechzoom.com/fintech-news-bitcoin-news/bitcoin-btc-can-help-sme-and-reset-collapsing-system-jimmy-song/

Bitcoin maximalist and entrepreneur Jimmy Song believes that Bitcoin can contribute to the resetting of the breaking financial system and help SME in particular

Contents ‘Reset the system with #Bitcoin’

‘Bitcoin fixes this’

Bitcoin maximalist, developer and entrepreneur Jimmy Song has recently posted several tweets about the current situation on the markets and in the business sphere.





As many SME are going bankrupt due to the quarantine, Jimmy Song reckons that Bitcoin can help reset the financial system in the US, fixing the current issues in it.





‘Reset the system with #Bitcoin’





Jimmy Song shares his take on the current situation on the stock market and in the SME sphere. Stocks are going up, he says, but in an unhealthy way, not because of their good fundamentals. Small businesses that have to close down and are going bankrupt due to the lockdown are suffering, he says.





Bitcoin can help reset the system, as per him.









‘Bitcoin fixes this’





Song writes that the ones who are making profits now are banks and large corporations who are buying bankrupt small businesses at extremely low prices. Bitcoin fixes it, Song claims:





“You understand all these small companies going bankrupt? Guess who’ll be shopping for up the tools and assets on a budget? These with entry to low-cost loans from the federal government: banks/huge corps. That is how folks get screwed out of their blood, sweat and tears. #Bitcoin fixes this.”





He provides a couple of phrases about voting, saying that, equally to fiat cash, voting is a poor consent system, since it may be manipulated. Markets and cash on them are a significantly better indicator of what folks desire, he says. And when fiat is crashing, many begin shopping for Bitcoin, reminds Tune to his viewers.





Due to this fact, he states, when folks begin adopting BTC, they’re making an attempt to run away from the damaged fiat system.



