DATE:  18.04.2020, 21:07:16
TITLE: Brazilian bitcoin broker freezes R $ 50,000 from suspected pyramid company
URL:   https://ourbitcoinnews.com/brazilian-bitcoin-broker-freezes-r-50000-from-suspected-pyramid-company/

The attempt by the owner of R3 Profit to use PagCripto as a kind of payment solution did not succeed. After the exchange discovered that an individual account would be used to move the company's cryptocurrencies, it decided to stop the withdrawals – and the case ended up in court.

The lawsuit is pending at the 3rd Civil Court of Águas Lindas de Goiás. The case was filed against PagCripto a month ago by Esther Oliveira Macedo, managing partner of R3 Profit, after it was blocked in more than R $ 50 thousand in cryptocurrencies.

The story behind this block, however, involves the suspected money laundering of R3 profit, which calls itself a Multilevel Marketing company and promises monthly gains of 5% in investments in cryptocurrencies – something typical of financial pyramid schemes.

According to Carlos Lain, CEO of PagCripto, Macedo had opened an individual account at the exchange last December. However, it used corporate data from R3 Profit to withdraw cryptocurrencies.

“She tried to pass the registration as an Individual but justified the funds as PJ. She created the account, did not make KYC (acronym for Know Your Customer) and started using the gateway to receive Bitcoin deposits in her business. When she accumulated some money, she decided to withdraw and saw that she needed to do KYC. By e-mail, compliance asked for the information but it didn't match ”, he said.

Suspected Pyramid

The scheme was only discovered by the broker in January, after PagCripto's compliance was informed that the PJ in question was a cryptocurrency investment company.

PagCripto then sought to know if the company had authorization from the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) to operate in the market, but nothing was found. This caused a suspicion to be raised.

Before that, however, Lain said that PagCripto's legal officer sought to speak to her so that the alleged misunderstanding could be resolved, but that during this period "her account would be on standby, until the documents were approved".

The fact is that she did not send to the exchange "what was asked to clarify doubts and ensure that the source was completely legal". On the contrary, Macedo decided to file a lawsuit on February 2 against PagCripto.

Effective compliance

If the exchange had not triggered its compliance, PagCripto would be serving as a gateway, that is, a solution for receiving and charging with cryptocurrencies for a company at least suspect.

“This website, due to her account, received contributions using us. Only cryptocurrencies in the account, but probably everything from customers, ”said Lain.

He explained that “account approval and withdrawal of funds is linked to compliance analysis”. And what happened, in his opinion, was that the owner of R3 Profit tried to receive first, without first consulting.

"Only after receiving a considerable amount that they tried to pass the documentation for approval," he said.

The promise of easy earning

Like so many other companies that use the term Multilevel Marketing to attract investors, R3 Profit mentions very high fixed gains in risky markets such as cryptocurrency.

In one of the videos posted on YouTube, it appears that regardless of how much the person will receive the total income of 175%. The plans announced range from R $ 50 to R $ 10,000 and still have the promise of so-called binary gains, those in which the person wins for each nominee.

The company, moreover, promises 15% on any reinvested value as if the market were fixed income. But in a part of the video it is clear where this profitability comes from. There is an incentive for people to bring new customers to R3 Profit. But for that, you have to refer 10 to 50 people.

According to data from the Federal Revenue, R3 Profit has partners, in addition to Esther Macedo, Jordana Cristina Sousa Cruz and Adriana Correa da Conceição. Only Macedo, however, is listed as a managing partner of the company.

No reply

O Bitcoin Portal got in touch with Esther Macedo, but got no response immediately. One of the investors who maintains a profile of R3 Profit on facebook reported that the partner had changed her phone and that he did not know who had her contact.

However, after that, Macedo contacted the report. However, she guarded herself and preferred not to comment on the case.