DATE:  18.04.2020, 09:36:34
TITLE: Dash Text Is an Excellent Option to Send Cryptocurrency to Relatives
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/13633/dash-text-is-an-excellent-option-to-send-cryptocurrency-to-relatives/

Dash is a payments focused cryptocurrency. The marketing feature for this cryptocurrency are the instant transaction confirmation. It provides protection against double spending.

Dash is basically based on Bitcoin. It is compatible with several features of the Bitcoin ecosystem. Individuals and businesses can use Dash. New users who learn about how to buy and spend dash start off with a wallet. There are a few features that sets Dash apart from the Bitcoin Protocol in that it has got various improvements like a two-tier incentivized network – the master node network.

Dash Tweeted: “Release Process at Dash Core Group Dash Core Group is excited to announce changes to how we approach future releases for #Dash Platform. These changes aim to make our releases more predictable, reliable, and transparent.”

For those who want to send money to their relatives Dash Text is an excellent option. Even those who do not have a Dash Text wallet need not worry. They need to just accept the invitation and instantly they will be able to receive their Dash.

One of the Dash Enthusiast commented: “Hey!. Why don’t you take a look at Cuba? DashText can be a great option for participation in crypto for millions of Cubans who still do not have connectivity.”

Sydney Ifergan, the crypto expert tweeted: “Sending money to family is becoming very important. If DashText makes it work easier like helping Dash coin to dollar, Dash to PHP, MYR, INR or others people should consider trying it.”

DASH Core Group Increase in the Frequency of Releases

Dash Core Group have made some changes in the way they will be managing their future releases. These changes will eventually make the releases more predictable, reliable and transparent. These changes are expected to foster greater activity in the Dash developer ecosystem. The agile development environment is expected to keep away from erroneous assumptions during the design and the implementation of the software. Thus avoiding the idea of devoting too much time to unnecessary and undesired features.

Dash Core Group recently tweeted: “Release Process at Dash Core Group Dash Core Group is excited to announce changes to how we approach future releases for #Dash Platform. These changes aim to make our releases more predictable, reliable, and transparent.”

The organizational structure of the Dash Core Group is still in the fluid process of its creation. The change in the release process is a reflection of our growth. This is also representative of numerous internal changes. They believe that these changes will place then in a better position of delivering on the promise of true digital cash.

With distributed ownership a long and coordinated effort will be required to update the nodes to the newest software version. An increase in the frequency of releases is expected with the current changes.

Advertisement