DATE:  18.04.2020, 14:35:01
TITLE: Microbt Reveals Two Next-Generation Mining Rigs With Speeds Up to 112 Terahash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/microbt-reveals-two-next-generation-mining-rigs-with-speeds-up-to-112-terahash/

Microbt Reveals Two Next-Generation Mining Rigs With Speeds Up to 112 Terahash

Competition is heating up in the world of bitcoin mining rig manufacturing. Just recently, the Chinese producer Microbt has announced the launch of the M30S++ miner that processes speeds up to 112 terahash per second (TH/s). The news from Microbt follows Bitmain’s announcement at the end of February, which saw the manufacturer reveal two miners with speeds between 95TH/s to 110TH/s.

Also read: Bitmain Unveils 2 Bitcoin Miners With Max Speeds Up to 110TH/s Per Unit

Microbt’s New Whatsminer Models Claim to Boast Highly Competitive Hashrates

Ever since the coronavirus swept the globe, there have been a lot fewer announcements within the cryptocurrency and blockchain industry. This week the China-based mining rig manufacturer Microbt has unveiled a new Whatsminer series machine that claims to process speeds up to 112TH/s. Microbt was founded in 2017 and the company has steadily become one of the leading mining rig producers worldwide. The company was launched by the current CEO Yang Zuoxing, a former employee of Bitmain. Ostensibly, Zuoxing was the lead director behind developing the Bitmain’s Antminer series, including the popular S7 and S9 models.

In 2017 the company introduced it’s flagship mining rigs the M1 and M3 and sold close to 400,000 units. At the time, it was estimated that Microbt Whatsminer series machines powered around 10% of the overall BTC network hashrate. Since then, the team has launched a number of miners and in 2020 the Microbt team is keeping up with the competition with an onslaught of next-generation ASIC devices. This week, the Chinese mining rig manufacturer announced the launch of the M30S++, a machine that claims to boast 112TH/s. Specifications note that the new Whatsminer models have a power efficiency of around 31 joules per terahash (J/TH). The M30S++ device is in direct competition with Bitmain’s S19 Pro, which claims to deliver 110TH/s and power efficiency of around 29.5J/TH.

The 100TH/s Whatsminer Model and Mining Rig Shipment Uncertainty

Further, Microbt has introduced a second model dubbed the M30S+, which produces around 100TH/s and has around 34J/TH of efficiency as well. In addition to the second model, Microbt’s Chen Jianbing, the company’s COO explained that the company would extend warranty coverage for a whole year, as opposed to the prior 180-day coverage. The lower end model (M30S+) will allegedly sell for $2,800 and the higher end (M30S++) machine will sell for $3,900 per unit.

Even though Microbt’s future shipping dates say June 1 through the 30th, mining operations have complained about mining rig shipping delays due to the coronavirus. Just recently the mining operations Riot Blockchain and Hut8 have been upset about lengthy shipping delays hurting their business model. The coronavirus has made it so mining rigs from the top Chinese ASIC manufacturers like Microbt, Bitmain, and Canaan are considerably delayed and arrival times are uncertain.

What do you think about the latest Microbt miners? Let us know in the comments below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons, Microbt, Whatsminer

Purchase Bitcoin without visiting a cryptocurrency exchange. Buy BTC and BCH here.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.