DATE:  18.04.2020, 01:16:20
TITLE: Peter Thiel Backs $200 Million Valuation for Renewable Bitcoin Mining in the US
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/peter-thiel-backs-200-million-valuation-for-renewable-bitcoin-mining-in-the-us/89102/

One firm is driving its marketing strategy straight into the “bitcoin wastes an excessive amount of vitality” argument and has raised $30 million to take action.

That’s in line with Layer1 co-founder and CEO Alexander Liegl, which plans to convey wind-powered bitcoin mining rigs to West Texas early subsequent yr. The corporate is elevating a complete of $50 million at a $200 million valuation, he mentioned.

The thought of bitcoin crowding out different makes use of for clear vitality displays a misunderstanding of the market, Liegl defined in a telephone name:

“Renewable vitality remains to be primarily under-utilized so that you don’t even have a zero-sum sport.”

The corporate has up to now raised funds for its sequence A from Peter Thiel, Shasta Ventures and different cryptocurrency buyers that it has declined to reveal. This spherical follows a earlier $2.1 million seed spherical that additionally included Thiel, in addition to the Digital Foreign money Group.

Additional, Liegl questioned the complete premise that the use of electrical energy to energy the bitcoin community is a waste.

“Bitcoin is the solely factor we imagine in and that’s what we expect can result in disrupting the monetary system,” he mentioned, including:

“We expect electrical energy directed to the bitcoin mining community is definitely a web optimistic for society.”

The corporate is vertically built-in, in that it plans to run its personal bitcoin mining amenities in the United States, utilizing mining rigs that the firm designed and constructed in-house and operating its personal energy procurement.

“We truly personal electrical energy substations and land-property in Texas already,” Liegl defined. “We personal all the pieces as much as our personal energy plant, however I can let you know that's definitely on the agenda.”

The corporate has co-founders with prior experience in {hardware} and mining, such that they imagine they'll execute a complicated technique that makes mining in the U.S. worthwhile once more.

“The final seven years we consider as mining 1.0,” Liegl mentioned, with companies doing little greater than racing to deploy the most capital. He added:

“Going ahead, the market is shifting to a sport of operational bills.”

Don’t mess with Texas

Texas has a serious benefit as a cryptocurrency mining location, with vitality costs amongst the very lowest in the nation (significantly for industrial electrical energy), in line with the U.S. Power Info Company.

“I really like the place. It’s so private-market-friendly,” Liegl mentioned. “Bitcoin mining is fairly compelling to folks on the market as a result of it’s fairly analogous to how oil and fuel works.”

Additional, 16 % of energy in Texas comes from wind, in line with the Division of Power. Over 25,000 megawatts have been constructed with virtually 8,000 at the moment underneath development.

Whereas Liegl acknowledges that any operation like his will want a backup energy provide for occasions when wind isn't sturdy sufficient, the firm nonetheless expects to ship a really excessive proportion of its hashrate by way of renewable electrical energy.

The issue for Texas, Liegl defined, is cooling the miners.

Air-cooled miners in Texas would dissipate, he defined, so that they needed to devise a option to liquid-cool the miners. That’s what Layer1 has created with its proprietary mining gear, every unit of which runs on two megawatts of energy.

The primary facility might be arrange in an open space about 90 minutes west of Midland, Texas.

How huge is sufficient?

“The US’ hash charge share is at the moment beneath 5 %,” Liegl mentioned. “Our purpose is to bump that as much as at the least over 15 %.”

As the firm notes in an announcement shared with CoinDesk in advance, 60 % of bitcoin’s hash charge and all of its {hardware} manufacturing is in China. The announcement describes the scale of Layer1’s ambition:

“With this funding, we're positioned to personal the complete Bitcoin mining stack by designing, producing, and working our whole mining infrastructure, together with proprietary: ASIC chips, liquid-cooled mining containers and energy procurement and growth.”

By securing a considerable amount of funding early, Jacob Mullins of Shasta Ventures mentioned that Layer1 can pursue a extra formidable imaginative and prescient than most startups may, pursuing unit economics that make it enticing as a long-term funding. Additional, he believes that as a producer of bitcoin in the U.S., taking a pro-regulator strategy, Layer1 could have a bonus when home establishments lastly transfer into bitcoin.

“I feel that’s one other daring manner of going at the market and I feel over time will create a moat of high quality for the enterprise,” Mullins mentioned.

After all to satisfy institutional demand – if it ever comes – will take quite a lot of bitcoin.

There’s no query that Layer1 goes for scale and rapidly, however Leigl declined to reveal anticipated wattage used in 2020, although he mentioned he anticipated it to be “many a whole bunch of megawatts.” He added:

“Going ahead to 2021, we’re speaking gigwatts.”

Wind generators in West Texas picture by way of Shutterstock