DATE:  02.03.2019, 00:00:00
TITLE: Bitcoin Evolution For Smart People Interested in Cryptocurrency
URL:   https://thriveglobal.com/stories/bitcoin-evolution-for-smart-people-interested-in-cryptocurrency/

I have been approached by so many people who are looking to diversify their investment options with a request that I show them how to trade in bitcoins. Having done your research on bitcoin, you may think it has peaked and that if you sell your coins now you’ll make the best profit you can. Maybe you’re intrigued by a new cryptocurrency on the rise and want to trade some of your bitcoins for it, diversifying your portfolio of cryptocurrencies. Or you could just want out of the bitcoin game and have decided it’s time to sell it all.

Whatever your reason, there are ways to sell and trade bitcoin to fit your need. That is what makes it so interesting to people in the bitcoin world: If you’re not content to mine bitcoin, spend it or passively hold onto it in hopes that the price rises, you can treat it like it’s a stock. If you’re trading bitcoin futures, you can even incorporate bitcoin into the literal stock market!

Of course, it can be a nuisance, too. Selling bitcoins can require being more involved than simply buying them on your phone. And if you thought other stocks were volatile, risky and unpredictable, just wait until you spend an hour tracking bitcoin’s rises and falls. Finding the perfect time to sell is hard enough with a dependable stock, no less one that goes from about $1,000 at the beginning of the year to more than $19,000 toward the end of the same year.

Enter Bitcoin Evolution

Bitcoin Evolution is an app that analyzes the market for you therefore giving you smart advice on when to invest. Joining bitcoin evolution is pretty easy since all you need to do is go to their website, download the app to your gadget, register your details in the app and voila, you just joined the club of millionaires.

Their team of top notch customer support are always looking for ways to make you rich and will advise you accordingly on when to trade the bitcoins. So you do not have to read endless investment news or watch the bitcoin prices every moment.

Other than bitcoin, the app also gives you reports on other cryptocurrency coins such as litecoin, etherum, dash and monero. If you have the coins, you will told the best time to sell them when the prices go up and also the best time to buy them when their prices are fair.

Pros of Bitcoin Evolution

Some of the things that I loved about the app include:

Flawless technology

The technology of the app is top-notch and I loved that about it. You see you want to have something that is smart and makes things very easy for you away from all those websites showing the trend in prices of the cryptocurrency coins.

Seamless flow

The app works seamlessly and easily so that you are able to do things without a hassle. You wil be able to see not only bitcoin but also all the other coins that you might be interested in.