DATE:  02.03.2019, 13:51:18
TITLE: Purple Lamborghini found crashed in a ditch owned by bitcoin investor Michael Hudson
URL:   https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-03-02/lamborghini-found-crashed-in-a-ditch-owned-by-bitcoin-investor-/10864498

Purple Lamborghini found crashed in a ditch owned by bitcoin investor Michael Hudson

Updated

A Lamborghini found crashed into a ditch in London turns out to be owned by a bitcoin investor, who laughed off the incident as his car was towed to safety.

Key points: The Lamborghini Huracan Performante was found empty on Friday morning

Mr Hudson said he drove into the ditch to avoid a pole after the car skidded on water

The vehicle was towed out of the ditch with minor damage

The 270,000 British pound ($500,000) Lamborghini Huracan Performante supercar was reportedly discovered by cameraman Andrew Laurence in Enfield, north London, while he was driving to work early Friday morning (local time).

Mr Laurence told SWNS the car was on the wrong side of the road, with the driver's side door jammed against the ground.

Police confirmed to SWNS there was no-one inside the vehicle and they were attempting to locate the owner.

The car was found close to the training ground of Tottenham Hotspur, with Mr Laurence speculating the vehicle could have belonged to a Premier League football star.

But hours later Bitstocks founder and chief executive Michael Hudson arrived to claim the bright purple vehicle from the ditch.

Mr Hudson explained he lost control of the car on the single-lane road when it skidded on "standing water".

"I was heading towards that pole over there," Mr Hudson said at the scene of the crash in a video posted to YouTube by celebrity car customiser Yianni Charalambous.

"Prime directive [was] don't hit the pole [and] I just banked it."

Mr Charalambous, who assisted Mr Hudson in towing the car out of the ditch while he blocked the road with his own Lamborghini, said the bitcoin CEO had not been drinking while driving and noted he was remarkably calm given how much the vehicle was worth.

"This guy is the calmest guy in the world," Mr Charalambous said.

"Me, I'd be running up and down crying, but this guy is like 'it's just a car'."

Mr Hudson posted images of the car on Instagram, acknowledging he had "a bad day" but said the vehicle had only received minor damage.

"Damage isn't too bad and I'm sure she will be back on the road soon enough," he said.

Topics: human-interest, accidents, united-kingdom

First posted