DATE:  13.08.2019, 12:28:00
TITLE: China says state cryptocurrency set to rival bitcoin is 'close' to launch
URL:   https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/china-cryptocurrency-launch-when-bitcoin-billionaire-invest-a9055376.html

China's central bank has revealed it will soon launch its own state-backed cryptocurrency following five years of research.

A senior official at the People's Bank of China said the cryptocurrency was "close to being out" at an event held by China Finance 40 Forum, according to separate reports in Reuters and Bloomberg, though failed to provide a specific date for its unveiling.

Mu Changchun, deputy director of the China's central bank, said the new currency would rely on a "two-tier" system that would allow both the PBC and financial institutions to issue the currency.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

China has traditionally been resistant to decentralised cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, despite the country being home to some of the world's largest cryptocurrency mining facilities.

But while China pushes back on bitcoin adoption, the PBC has been researching the potential of its own cryptocurrency since 2014.

Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Show all 8 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters

Industry experts say other global economies risk being left behind if they do not develop their own blockchain-based digital currency and continue to stifle cryptocurrency adoption.

"It's clear that China understands the opportunity cost of missing out on cryptocurrency growth," Don Guo, CEO of Broctagon Fintech Group, told The Independent.

"Digital currencies are coming into the mainstream and international competition is heating up... China is well positioned to get ahead of the game and take up a leading position in one of the key asset classes of the future. Although a certain level of regulatory scrutiny is wise, other countries should consider taking China's lead."

Few details about China's cryptocurrency have been revealed, though the new system could theoretically reduce the costs of circulating traditional paper currency, as well as speed up and add security to digital transactions.

If the new currency is to be rolled out on any significant scale, it will need to be able to cope with massive transaction volumes.

The new currency may also risk leaving out large swathes of China's 1.4 billion population, with only around half of the country owning smartphones, which will presumably support the digital wallets required to store and spend the cryptocurrency.

Patents registered by the PBC reveal plans for a mobile wallet that would allow users to swap yuan for cryptocurrency.

Systems described in the patents suggest the cryptocurrency could give China's central bank much greater control of the money supply, as well as track all payments made across the network.

We’ve teamed up with cryptocurrency trading platform eToro. Click here to get the latest Bitcoin rates and start trading. Cryptocurrencies are a highly volatile unregulated investment product. No EU investor protection. 75% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs.