DATE:  16.03.2020, 16:27:37
TITLE: Bitcoin Lifestyle: Is it Worth Giving a Try?
URL:   https://www.newsbtc.com/2020/03/16/bitcoin-lifestyle-is-it-worth-giving-a-try/

Bitcoin is a powerful investment currency. News reports are full of stories of individuals who invested in Bitcoin and, with time, have earned a small fortune. Unfortunately, there’s a lot of confusion about what Bitcoin is and how a person can invest in it. Thankfully, there are several guides available to demystify Bitcoin. There are broker reviews and apps that have made investing in Bitcoin simple, even for individuals who have no previous investment experience.

How Is Bitcoin Lifestyle Helping People Make Money?

Bitcoin Lifestyle is a viral trading bot that makes use of advances in artificial intelligence and machine learning to analyze crypto market data and put it to use. The platform is capable of extrapolating patterns from analyzed data and accurately predict the value of Bitcoin. While all these features sound attractive, the question of whether it is a legitimate product or not remains unanswered.

The review of the Bitcoin Lifestyle will be able to throw some light on various features of the platform as well as its legitimacy.

Factors Considered While Evaluating Bitcoin Lifestyle

A cursory look into the Bitcoin Lifestyle platform gives the impression that it is a genuine product. Even the testimonials available on their website, as well as other online platforms, seem to support this conclusion as well. Some of the other indicators used to evaluate the solution include the accuracy of information, sentiment of user feedback, customer service, and cyber safety.

During the review, it was found that most of the claims made by the website are valid and achievable. The platform claims that its trading robot has a better win rate compared to its peers, and the positive user reviews stating they were able to make profits using the service seems to support Bitcoin Lifestyle’s claims.

The platform has a 24/7 customer service desk where users can reach out over live chat or phone calls. The support desk was found to be helpful with a response time of under one minute. So far, it also seems to have strong cybersecurity features in place to protect user data and prevent unauthorized access.

Bitcoin Lifestyle, What It Is, and How It’s Used?

Bitcoin Lifestyle is an auto trading robot service for trading cryptocurrencies. The use of highly effective algorithms replicates the market data analysis techniques that are commonly followed by tech-savvy traders, but at a much faster rate to identify profitable trading opportunities. Based on the parameters set by the user, the trading robot automatically places buy and sell orders to generate the maximum profit possible under prevailing market conditions.

Being an automated trading platform, Bitcoin Lifestyle users don’t have to possess strong trading skills. Any user interested in investing in the Bitcoin market can create an account, deposit funds into their account, and activate the auto-trading feature by entering suitable parameters to start making profits. The information made available by the platform indicates that over 60 percent of Bitcoin Lifestyle users did not have any trading background. Yet, they were able to achieve varying profits through automated trading.

Trading on Bitcoin Lifestyle is a high risk – high reward activity, and the results may vary from time to time as the profit-making potential on online crypto trades heavily depends on the trading conditions. So, it is always advisable to trade with caution and not invest more than one can afford to lose.

What Makes Bitcoin Lifestyle So Effective?

When it comes to auto-trading robots, their effectiveness depends on the underlying technology. According to the platform, Bitcoin Lifestyle uses a computer algorithm that is capable of emulating strategies of some of the best crypto traders on the planet that have proven profitable. It has further benefitted from its creators as the founder of the platform is said to be a software engineer and an expert trader who has developed several trading robots.

The platform is designed to work with reputable robot-brokers who are responsible for handling the deposits and other trading related transactions. The combination of a trustworthy trading robot and reputable regulated brokers ensure better trading performance and higher returns. The partner brokers of Bitcoin Lifestyle offer a high leverage ratio of 1:1000 meaning, any trader with a deposit of $250 can place trades up to $250,000.

However, higher leverage also comes with a higher risk as it can generate tremendous losses if the trades don’t work out in favor.

Understanding the Steps of Trading with Bitcoin Lifestyle

Being an automated trading robot, Bitcoin Lifestyle can be used by anyone, irrespective of whether they have any knowledge of trading or not. Once the account is all set with the minimum required deposit, the live trading feature can be activated. At which point, the platform will take over the trading activity and place orders on behalf of the account holders.

Getting started on Bitcoin Lifestyle is a simple 3 step process starting with:

Registration – Involves opening an account by entering and verifying the personal and communication details like name, email address and phone number on the website. After completing the verification process, the account will be ready to accept deposits.

Deposits – Bitcoin Lifestyle has a minimum deposit of $250 that can be paid through Visa, MasterCard, Bitcoin, Wire Transfer, Neteller, WebMoney, Skrill and others. The deposit will be handled by partner brokers and it will be used as the investment by the trading robot to place buy orders on behalf of the account holder. The entire process takes less than 2-3 minutes. There are no handling charges for deposits.

Live Trading – With deposits in place, the user can activate the live trading feature for Bitcoin Lifestyle trading bots to start trading. The users will have to create risk management profiles on the dashboard, which will help the trading robot manage trades within the pre-set parameters.

For better returns and reduced risks, it is advisable to run Bitcoin Lifestyle for at least 8 hours a day and ensure that the amount per trade doesn’t cross 10% of the total capital invested. This practice will help traders avoid the risk of losing a considerable amount in case a trade goes bad.

Users can also access the Bitcoin Lifestyle platform from any device, as the web application is designed to be responsive and it is optimized for various mobile screen sizes and browser technologies.

Few Bitcoin Lifestyle Features that Stand Out

Some of the features that make Bitcoin Lifestyle stand out from the competition include:

Accurate performance with claimed accuracy levels of over 99.4 percent.

Superior technology involving high-end artificial intelligence and machine learning that helps to stay ahead of the markets by 0.01 seconds.

Award-winning trading platform with multiple awards, including the recent US Trading Association’s recognition as the No.1 Trading Software.

Is Bitcoin Lifestyle Legitimate?

During the entire review, there hasn’t been any instance that raised a red flag on the platform’s legitimacy. The Bitcoin Lifestyle trading robot seems to be capable of handling everything, as described on their website. However, the profitability may vary from person to person based on the parameters of the risk profile entered by the user at the beginning of the auto-trading session. Even the prevailing market conditions during any time period may also have an effect on the earnings.

Irrespective of the short-term market conditions, the trading software can prove beneficial over the long run, provided the user doesn’t panic and stick with their investment.

So far, most of the testimonials and reviews reflect the positive aspects of the trading software, including its performance and profitability.

Click here top open a free account