DATE:  16.03.2020, 19:30:40
TITLE: Bitcoin Games Celebrates St. Patrick’s Day With Free Spins Promotion
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-games-st-patricks-day/

Bitcoin Games Celebrates St. Patrick’s Day With Free Spins Promotion

The world needs a good cause to cheer right now in these tense times. Luckily, St. Patrick’s Day is coming up this Tuesday, March 17. To celebrate the holiday and give players an extra reason to smile, Bitcoin Games is offering a new free spins promotion. The platform is a provably fair online casino where you can play popular games using BTC and BCH. Its Free Spins feature allows users to place free bets on a slot machine that awards real crypto winnings.



Also Read: Video Games Giant Ubisoft Is Looking for Blockchain Startups to Support

Celebrate St. Patrick’s Day With Bitcoin Games

As the world prepares to mark the Feast of Saint Patrick, the patron saint of Ireland, Bitcoin Games invites players to take part in the cultural celebration without the need to go out to crowded events or even leave the house. The online platform is offering a special holiday promotion based on Lucky Lady’s Clover, a slot game inspired by Irish folklore.

“From pots of gold and rainbows to clover leaves and Lady Luck herself – this slot has everything to put players in the Irish spirit,” the developers explain. “Lucky Lady’s Clover carries a sprinkle of Irish luck and a reverie of the mythologies rooted deep in the culture of the Emerald Isle that will put you just in the right mood for St. Patrick’s Day.”

The promotion starts on March 16, 2020 at 00:00 GMT and ends on March 19 at 23:59 GMT. To be eligible for the promotion, players need to make a minimum qualifying deposit of 0.002 BTC within the promotion period and wager a total of 0.015 BTC or more on Lucky Lady’s Clover. Those who fulfill the requirements will be credited with 20 free spins.

Participate in the promotion to try a bit of Irish luck and bring yourself some cheer. For more information please visit the promotion’s terms and conditions page on the website.



What do you think about Bitcoin Games celebrating St. Patrick’s Day with a free spins promotion? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.