DATE:  16.03.2020, 14:19:50
TITLE: BitCasino Review 2020: Licensed Bitcoin & Crypto Casino
URL:   https://blockonomi.com/bitcasino-review/

BitCasino is an online gambling platform that was created with the focus being on those people who want to gamble using Bitcoin.

BitCasino has been in business since 2014 and it is under the ownership of mBet Solutions NV, a company that also has a Bitcoin sportsbook under its operation.

The BitCasino site is under the oversight and regulation of the authorities in Curacao. In its short lifespan, the site has undergone a number of different designs, constantly keeping things fresh for its players. It is well-stocked out with a varied library of games, catering for most popular needs.

This BitCasino review will look at all of the different aspects that make up this platform. You will be able to see the strengths and weaknesses that are part of this site, allowing you to make an informed decision.

Visit BitCasino

BitCasino Game Offering

There is a comprehensive library of casino games to choose from on the BitCasino platform. Many leading game developers are looked after through this offering.

For slots players, there are more than 1,800 different options. You can quickly see what games are offered from different developers.

Some of the biggest names in the business are catered for, such as Play’n GO, Microgaming, Yggdrasil, Pragmatic, Evolution Gaming, Onetouch, Betsoft and Quickfire. There are different types of slots, from ultra-modern 3D games to video slots and more classic types of games.

Some of the most popular titles on the platform include the likes of Mr. Vegas, Gladiator and Aztec Treasures. If you do not want to put your hard-earned money on the line straight away, you are able to play all of these games for free.

At the time of writing, there were more than 30 different progressive slots to play. The jackpots for these titles varied widely, with some of the options such as Megah Moolah offering significant sums to be won.

The table games offering is a bit smaller than a lot of competitors, with fifty options in total. This is still satisfactory for the majority of online casino players, with all of the major bases being well-covered.

Blackjack is the most popular table game on the site, with numerous variants including High Roller and Perfect Pairs variants. Roulette is similarly very well-supported, with Baccarat also having a big emphasis, which you would not often see with a lot of online casinos. Then you have a selection of casino poker games and some niche options such as Dragon Tiger and Sic Bo.

BitCasino Live Casino Offering

There is also a comprehensive live casino offering on the BitCasino platform. Live dealer games have grown massively in popularity in recent years, with this type of offering only set to grow as the world moves into a 5G space.

In total, there are more than one hundred different live dealer games you have access to. The live dealer offering is powered by Evolution Gaming, one of the leaders in the live dealer space, with studios all across the world, catering for many different languages.

This is an HD experience across the board, with a very interactive environment from start to finish, with an ideal selection of betting limits for most types of games.

Once again, baccarat is one of the standout options, with more than 40 different variants on offer. Then you have a nice selection of roulette and blackjack games, as well as the likes of Monopoly Live and Casino Hold’em.

There is a section called Salon Prive that has six different games to try out. This is an exclusive offering that is available to high rollers and VIPs on the platform.

These titles will have a dedicated dealer, higher betting limits, ability to dictate the speed of the game, as well as having the option to have no other players in the lobby as you play, which would be a big bonus for certain types of players.

Welcome Bonus

At the moment, there does not appear to be a welcome bonus package on offer for new customers. Oftentimes, a platform will have welcome bonus packages as a way to entice people to sign up for an account.

These are often in the form of free spins, deposit bonuses or no deposit bonus funds. In the past, there have been welcome promotions running at the BitCasino.

The previous welcome bonus offer allowed you to have your first deposit matched 100%, up to a max bonus of 1 BTC. There were x35 wagering requirements for this offer, which is about average for the industry. There were also certain types of games that would contribute 100% to the wagering requirements, with some types of games not contributing at all.

Regular Promotions and Loyalty Program

There are regular promotions for existing customers of the BitCasino platform to avail of. These change on a regular basis, usually having interesting twists that are not seen with a lot of other operators. You can even see the past promotions that BitCasino has been running if you wish to do so on the site’s ‘Promotions’ page.

The current promotions vary. There is an offer that boosts winnings on certain slots titles that are exclusive to the BitCasino platform. There is also a large prize pool that players can battle it out for by playing certain slots titles, with those at the head of the leaderboard getting some great prizes. There are also daily free spins and cash prizes when you play certain games.

Naturally, most of these promotions and bonus funds bring along wagering requirements with them. BitCasino makes it very easy for you to track your progress towards hitting these targets. There is a bonus tracker on the top corner of the site when you have an active bonus so you can quickly see what needs to be done.

For BitCasino players, there is also a loyalty program that you can get involved in. The Loyalty Club allows you to rack up reward points when you play most types of games on the platform.

You can cash out your points whenever you wish to do so, redeeming them, on the likes of free spins and cashback. The higher the tier you reach in this loyalty program, the better the perks are going to be for you. In total, there are seven tiers to the program and the bonuses will be tailored depending on your preferred types of games.

Overall, the promotions are decent, with a nice variety and the loyalty program is an ideal way of eking out extra perks from using the BitCasino platform.

Payment Methods

There are a few different types of payment methods that are now available to users on the BitCasino site. This is not just a crypto casino any longer, there are also options to deposit using fiat currencies. However, at its core, it is still a crypto casino and thus it is well-catered for in this regard.

The cryptocurrencies that you can add funds to your account include Bitcoin, Ethereum and Litecoin. The main fiat currencies that are supported on the platform are Japanese Yen and Euros.

For the fiat deposit options, you can use a credit card, SticPay, Neteller, MuchBetter, debit card or EcoPayz. The process of adding funds using crypto is very easy and carries fewer transaction costs and is usually quicker than the fiat options.

For crypto withdrawals, they only take a matter of minutes, whereas some of the fiat options will take a few business days for your withdrawn funds to hit your respective account.

You can add crypto funds either by using a QR Code or by simply copying and pasting your wallet address when making the transaction. You will get a confirmation once this process has completed. You can also deposit using Bitcoin through a given debit card that supports this type of payment.

Security

As BitCasino is mainly a crypto casino, you know that the name of the fame will be anonymity and security. You do not have to add much information at all when you are signing up for an account on the BitCasino site.

Cobalt protects the payments on the site in addition to the other types of protection that is in place. This security supplier regularly checks for vulnerabilities and gives incentives for people to report any potential bugs.

The information you have to enter is limited to selecting a username, entering an email address and setting a password. Then you will be able to get started depositing via crypto without having to go through any of the standard verification checks that are associated with using fiat currency to add funds to an online gambling account.

For the protection of the site itself, there is SSL encryption used across the board on the site to ensure that all sensitive data is kept well protected. You can also use the likes of two-factor authentication to add an extra layer of security onto your account. The casino software is very modern, with regular security checks being conducted to ensure that there are no flaws in the system.

To ensure the fairness of the games, there is also regular testing completed to ensure that there is no rigging of games. When you choose a given game on the site, you will be able to instantly see the return to player percentage (RTP) of that given title, so you know exactly what chance you have of winning in a given spin or hand.

There is also a TST badge displayed, which means that the games have undergone compliance checks by Gaming Laboratories International. This is a respected body for iGaming standards.

In terms of licensing and oversight, the BitCasino is governed by the authorities in Curacao. This ensures that a regulatory authority is keeping a close eye on the BitCasino operations at all times.

Customer Support

After you have created an account with the BitCasino, you will be able to get in touch with the customer support team.

Your first destination if you have an issue or are looking to expand your knowledge about a certain area of the casino is the ‘Help Centre’. This is a comprehensive FAQ section that will answer a lot of queries that you have with regards to the BitCasino platform.

If you want to get in touch with the support team directly, you can do so by using the live chat function. This is available most of the time and it allows you to get almost instant responses to any question you may have.

There is also a ticketing system and email address that you can use for asking more detailed questions or if the live chat function is out of action for a certain period of time.

At the moment, there is no phone support option which may be a downside for some people, but this is a common trait with most crypto casinos.

Mobile Offering

If you are a fan of playing casino games on your mobile device, you are in luck. You can play the BitCasino games on your mobile device through all popular browsers.

This goes for all of the popular smartphone devices, such as Android and iPhones. There is a massive crossover of games from the BitCasino desktop site over to the mobile site, which is not something that is seen with a lot of competitors.

These games have been tailored for mobile play, so you will have a smooth experience across the board. The see of the BitCasino mobile platform is very good and the navigation is simple and easy to use. Currently, there is no dedicated BitCasino app for users, which may be a downside for some people.

Usually, the mobile casino gameplay experience is better when using a dedicated app rather than playing through a web browser. However, this may be something that BitCasino releases in the future as the offering continues to grow and grow.

Design & Usability

While the design of the BitCasino platform is very simple, the minimalistic style is very easy on the eye. The color scheme allows the text to properly stand out and the navigation system is one of the best around. There is even the option to change the theme of the site as you wish, so you can constantly be looking at something fresh and new if this is a factor for you.

You are not inundated with too many options, everything is in one place for you to see. When you are trying to find a particular game, you can easily use the search function or check by the game developer. You can also quickly see the most popular games on the site, as well as the newly added titles.

There is even a function whereby you can favorite your preferred games so you can quickly access them. You are spoilt for choice in this regard. For the live dealer offering, you have access to HD streams and you can interact with your fellow players and even the dealers.

In total, there are ten different languages you can choose from when using BitCasino. The speed is also of top quality. One of the things to note is that older browsers are not really supported, so you need to have a browser that has been updated in recent times in order to have an optimal experience at BitCasino.

The registration process usually takes less than a minute to complete, so you will be playing your favorite games before you know it.

Overall, the usability of the site is one of the best around, with great customization options that allow you to tweak and tailor the experience to make it as optimal as possible for you and your needs.

Conclusion

BitCasino has long been one of the standout crypto casinos in the online casino space. It has a stunning library of games, with a particular focus on slots and baccarat. You will be hard pushed to find a better selection of games for top-quality developers. You also have a leading live dealer casino with more than one hundred tables.

A slight disappointment is the current lack of a welcome offer, but this is likely to return in the future. There is a strong loyalty reward program and regular promotions for existing players. You also have a platform that is great to look at, performs magnificently on desktop and mobile, as well as having a lot of customization choices.

Overall, the BitCasino offering is one of the best around today and is well worth signing up to try it out.

Visit BitCasino