DATE:  26.07.2019, 01:01:22
TITLE: Daily Activities Like Grocery Shopping May Hold the Key to Bitcoin Adoption
URL:   https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/07/26/daily-grocery-shopping-bitcoin-adoption/

Anyone involved or invested in the crypto industry or market has a desire to see Bitcoin succeed. Even those who prefer one of the thousands of altcoins over Bitcoin, do tend to understand that bitcoin adoption means overall crypto adoption, and the sentiment around the first-ever cryptocurrency typically controls the entire ebb and flow of the market.

But because the new technology is young and not yet understood by the masses, until it becomes part of everyday life and activities, it will struggle with adoption. This is why Bitcoin-rewards program Lolli has partnered with Safeway and Albertson’s supermarkets to launch a new initiative where customers can earn Bitcoin for shopping at one of the company’s 900 locations worldwide.

Lolli Teams Up With Safeway and Albertson’s In Major Retail Partnership

Bitcoin-based rewards program Lolli, which offers BTC back when making a purchase at a number of well-known retailers like Macy’s, Wal-Mart, Best Buy, and dozens more, has today revealed a new partnership with grocery store chain Safeway and Albertson’s – two brands owned by investing giant Cerberus Capital Management.

Related Reading | Crypto Trend Analyst: Bitcoin Price Rally Has Ended, Bottom December 2019?

This latest move is in line with what Lolli CEO and co-founder Alex Adelman says is their goal in “trying to make Bitcoin accessible to everyone” and will expose the first-ever crypto asset millions of customers in over 900 of the supermarket locations.

Highlight: "Right now, we're trying to make bitcoin accessible to everybody," @trylolli CEO @alexadelman says. "And so we're trying to make Bitcoin part of everyone's daily life. … We're bringing this whole new wave of users into bitcoin already." Full interview: pic.twitter.com/Sza0YG9GbE — Yahoo Finance (@YahooFinance) July 25, 2019

While speaking on a segment on Yahoo Finance, Adelman says he’s trying to make “Bitcoin part of everyone’s daily life,” which he believes is the key to adoption. He also believes that through his app and other ways of “earning” Bitcoin, it will drive a new wave of consumer adoption.

He also revealed that the company is planning a Bitcoin-based rewards credit card, where cardholders would earn Bitcoin rewards for spending using the card.

Are Grocery Stores Really the Key to Bitcoin Adoption?

Bitcoin is a financial asset, a store of value, and many, many other things to different people, depending on their needs. But it is also a technology, and many overlook how this impacts adoption.

There were times when the television, the internet, smartphones, and even refrigerators were considered a fad that would pass. It wasn’t until they became apart of our daily lives did these technologies suddenly become essential to it. Bitcoin will also someday achieve this, although since it has so many different use cases, how it will apply to daily life may not be very apparent.

Related Reading | Coinbase Crypto Milestone: Amasses 30M Users, 5M in Last 10 Months

But thanks to companies like Lolli and their partnership with Safeway, or a recent move by Coinstar to offer Bitcoin in exchange for actual coins at supermarkets everywhere, the visibility of the cryptocurrency as a brand and technology will soon become something unavoidable in daily life, even doing something as mundane as shopping for groceries.

Some day, in the not so distant future, the majority of the groceries across the globe may be paid for using Bitcoin, and its early beginnings in a grocery store may be what takes the crypto asset there, in time.