DATE:  26.07.2019, 17:00:53
TITLE: Overstock’s tZERO Launches Android Cryptocurrency Trading App
URL:   https://btcmanager.com/overstocks-tzero-android-cryptocurrency-trading-app/

Overstock’s tZERO Launches Android Cryptocurrency Trading App

tZERO, a distributed ledger technology (DLT) based alternative trading system (ATS) regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), has announced the launch of the Android version of its cryptocurrency mobile app named tZERO Crypto App, according to a press release on July 25, 2019.

Now Available on Android

In a bid to make it easier for investors to buy and sell bitcoin (BTC) as well as supported altcoins in a frictionless manner, tZERO, a platform that claims to be focused on revolutionizing the capital markets with blockchain technology, has unveiled the Android version of is cryptocurrency mobile app.

As stated in its press release, the tZERO Crypto App for Android will initially support only bitcoin and ether, the two largest cryptocurrencies by market capitalization and investors will now be able to buy, sell and hold the cryptoassets directly on their smartphones.

tZERO firmly believes that its mobile crypto app will help its clients safeguard their cryptocurrencies from thefts and hacks since they’ll no longer need to store their cryptos on third-party exchanges.

Commenting on the launch of the Android mobile app, Saum Noursalehi, tZERO CEO expressed his excitement over the huge milestone, adding that the solution will enable the firm to expand its user base.

In his words:

“We are excited to bring our platform to Android users, which we believe will greatly expand our user-base. The accessibility of the tZERO Crypto App is part of our plan to provide an intuitive trading experience for all cryptoassets.”



Features of the tZERO Android Crypto App

tZERO says it remains determined to operate in compliance with regulations and foster safety for consumers. Against that backdrop, it has integrated a biometric authentication system into the tZERO Android Crypto App to provide added security and ease of use.

That’s not all, the app also comes with the tZERO unique private key recovery system, which makes it possible for users to recover their funds when they lose their private keys or mobile phone. Interested users can get the tZERO Crypto App for Android on the Google Play store.

Since its launch in 2014, tZERO has been working hard to keep its promise of revolutionizing Wall Street with DLT. Earlier in July 2019, BTCManager informed that tZERO had successfully tokenized the Atari movie, a Hollywood theatrical motion picture under development.