DATE:  24.10.2019, 12:24:55
TITLE: Bitcoin price plummets amid fears over future of Facebook’s Libra cryptocurrency
URL:   https://metro.co.uk/2019/10/24/bitcoin-price-plummets-amid-fears-future-facebooks-libra-cryptocurrency-10975703/

The virtual currency’s value tumbled after Mark Zuckerberg appeared at a Senate hearing yesterday (Image: Getty)

The price of Bitcoin has nosedived after Mark Zuckerberg expressed doubts about the future of Facebook’s pioneering cryptocurrency.

Yesterday, Zuck testified before the House Financial Services Committee at a hearing called ‘An Examination of Facebook and Its Impact on the Financial Services and Housing Sectors’.

His comments were taken as evidence he was willing to scale back plans to unleash a global cryptocurrency.

The price of Bitcoin plunged from about $8,000 to a low of around $7,500 – the lowest its been in five months.

‘We clearly have not locked down exactly how this is going to work yet,’ the billionaire told the House Financial Service Committee hearing.

‘The goal of Libra is to build a global payment system rather than a currency.

The price of Bitcoin slumped as Zuck appeared at a Senate hearing (Image: Coindesk)

‘I personally am much more focused on being able to help innovate and build a global payment system than I am in any specific makeup of what a currency or reserve might look like.

Advertisement

Advertisement

‘There is already some discussion about whether it might make sense to build the kind of digital payment system … based on individual sovereign currencies rather than a combination of these currencies into some new one.’

The Facebook founder insisted Libra would not launch without regulatory approval.

‘Bitcoin quickly broke once Zuckerberg’s testimony got started,’ said Edward Moya, senior market analyst at OANDA in New York.

‘Right now there’s a growing sentiment that we may never see Libra live and that’s just a potential setback for the entire crypto space.’

The social network announced the new digital currency system earlier this year with backing from firms including Mastercard, Visa and PayPal.

It will eventually allow users to store and spend money directly from their smartphone..

‘Facebook will not control the network, the currency, or the reserve backing it,’ Facebook’s David Marcus said.

‘Facebook will only be one among over 100 members of the Libra Association by launch.

‘We will not have any special rights or privileges. Facebook created a subsidiary – Calibra – that will operate a wallet service on top of the Libra network, and while Facebook owns and controls Calibra, it won’t see financial data from Calibra.’