DATE:  18.03.2020, 12:30:22
TITLE: Bitcoin Live: How to Watch the Next Price Run or Crash in Real-Time
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-live-how-to-watch-the-next-price-run-or-crash-in-real-time/

Bitcoin Live: How to Watch the Next Price Run or Crash in Real-Time

Watching the bitcoin price move can be exhilarating, or at times soul-crushing, depending on the market. The unpredictability makes watching things unfold in real-time compelling, and checking the price via live broadcast is further enriched by commentary from popular traders and influencers. These let viewers in on their point of view as the market roller coaster unfolds by the second. In this article, we’ll look at some go-to broadcasters and live shows and see what they have to offer.

Also read: How to Track, Get and Set the Best Transaction Fees with Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash

The Benefits of Bitcoin Live

It’s one thing to see a pre-recorded video of your favorite influencer or crypto commentator sounding off on the latest news. It’s an entirely different experience when the show is being broadcast live, charts are moving in the background, and the host — perhaps with a guest or two — is debating and speculating about what the hell is going on.

An electrified live chat box buzzing with fresh comments, questions and jokes makes the whole scene that much richer. What follows is a peek at some of the leading live bitcoin people in the cryptosphere today, and what they bring to the table.

CNBC Television: Yes, it’s mainstream. Yes, it says “television.” All the same, for the political junkie with an interest in how world events are affecting markets — both bitcoin and legacy — CNBC’s Youtube channel offers a variety of programs, high profile guests, interviews and occasional live broadcasts with commentary.

The channel posts in prolific fashion daily, and though the focus is mainly traditional markets, it can help to contextualize bitcoin price movements in view of wider economic happenings and mainstream perception. For those that (perhaps rightly) think MSM is total garbage, remember the words of Hunter S. Thompson: “People think I watch TV too much, but they are wrong. There is a huge difference between merely ‘watching’ TV and learning to respond aggressively to it.”

Ivan on Tech: Leaving the square world of CNBC behind, Ivan on Tech offers daily live analysis of what’s happening in crypto markets, and like CNBC contextualizes it. Ivan, however, takes an economic view critical of some of the “rotten fundamentals” of traditional finance and central banks.

The show has a highly active live chat, analyzes news, social media buzz and crypto Twitter commentary, and of course price movements of cryptocurrencies. Ivan also has a Youtube presence where recorded content can be viewed, but after a recent suspension from the platform, he’s moved the actual live show to his website. In the latest episode he discusses the recent coronavirus stock market collapse, and the suggestion that crypto markets might need “circuit breakers,” like traditional stock markets.

Mitch Ray: Mitch Ray’s crypto technical analysis (TA) channel is a true live-casting operation for hardcore crypto netizens. The long-form, multiple-times-daily crypto streams examine markets live, focusing mainly on BTC and stocks, sometimes discussing altcoin and gold/metals markets as well. It’s a relaxed format with charts front and center. The relaxing music and good humored banter with the live chat group combine to make analysis hip and goofy at the same time, highly detail-oriented, and fun.

Crypt0: Omar Bam, better known as Crypt0 to those in the bitcoin space, has a successful crypto Youtube channel with 119K subscribers. Putting out crypto video content “nearly” daily, as he clarifies, Bam does a combination of pre-recorded and live content, focusing on a wide variety of different coins, topics, and guests.

His latest livestream from March 12, “Markets Are Crashing – A Chat With Alex Saunders of Nugget’s News,” finds Crypt0 and Sanders chewing on the tough realities of the current market panic in light of the worldwide coronavirus scare. The combination of conversation, live chat, and a running ticker at the bottom of the screen so prices are never too far away makes for an engaging bitcoin live experience.

Introtocryptos: A more technical live-streaming bitcoin and altcoin channel, Introtocryptos allows you to watch bitcoin trades happening in real-time, seeing what amounts are being traded on which exchange. So, if you have seven hours to spare and want to actually hear the sounds of bitcoin being bought or sold, this is your bitcoin live broadcast. The channel also features shorter videos with live commentary about altcoin markets, bitcoin dominance, and other topics.

Buckle Up, Enjoy the Ride

While finding reliable content is always a challenge in the veritable minefield of scams and empty promises that can clutter the crypto space, as long as you’re buckled up and adequately cynical, the above resources can help to put flesh on the bones of the bare numbers of the market, making bitcoin price movements something to be experienced as much as just read on a screen.

So whether you’re looking to see if your bags are going to lift you to the moon, or for someone to commiserate with as markets sink into the icy seas of capitulation, live bitcoin broadcasts are where it’s at. If you’re particularly industrious, you can even start your own.

What’s your favorite live bitcoin broadcast? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article. Price articles and market updates are intended for informational purposes only and should not be considered as trading advice. Neither Bitcoin.com nor the author is responsible for any losses or gains, as the ultimate decision to conduct a trade is made by the reader.

Image credits: Shutterstock, fair use.

Do you want to maximize your Bitcoin Mining potential? Plug your own hardware into the world’s most profitable Bitcoin mining pool or get started without having to own hardware through one of our competitive Bitcoin cloud mining contracts.