DATE:  18.03.2020, 12:34:11
TITLE: Chainlink (LINK) Continues Dip Below $2.00 USD Despite Poloniex Listing. Still Bullish?
URL:   https://coingape.com/chainlink-link-continues-dip-below-2-00-usd-despite-poloniex-listing-still-bullish/

Chainlink (LINK) dips by 3.15% in the past day as bulls struggle to cross the elusive $2.00 USD psychological mark.

Addition to Justin Sun’s, Poloniex cryptocurrency exchange did little to stop the bleed on LINK/USD pair.

The cryptocurrency field is heavily suffering from the COVID-19 virus pandemic as the world faces a shut down across 120+ countries and the global asset market collapses as well. However, as other cryptos find their feet towards pre-March 12th levels, Chainlink (LINK) continues its downtrend – losing over 3% in the past day.

Advertisement

In comparison, the top crypto, Bitcoin (BTC), is up a percentage in the past 24 hours, holding of bears to sit tight above $5,100 USD. However, as the world panics over the global pandemic and governments conduct expansionary monetary policies, expect the crypto market to react positively – LINK leading the charge as seen in 2020’s January and February bullish momentum.

LINK/USD bounces off $2.00 USD key resistance, 3.15% down

Chainlink currently switches hands at $1.866 USD, representing a sharp 6.56% drop from intraday highs, and a cross below the rising wedge support level at $1.90 USD. The price has also breached below the near term resistance provided by the two hour charts middle Bollinger Bands signaling a continuation of the current bearish trend.

The narrowing of the bands also shows that the price is set to explode in the near future, but with current indicators giving a sell signal, LINK/USD may spell trouble. A test of the lower 20-day BB band, which provides the longer term support level, at $1.70 USD will be key to determine a recovery or bust for LINK/USD pair.

No Effect: Poloniex exchange lists Chainlink pairs

On Mar. 17, Poloniex exchange, owned by Justin Sun, announced the addition of LINK pairs to BTC and Tron (TRX) on its platform. Despite the added liquidity options for the 16th placed coin, the prices remained low and traded in a rectangular pattern over the past few hours.

Advertisement

However, looking at the longer term charts, the price of LINK looks set to reclaim its 2020 highs with the relative strength index oscillating into the buy zone on the daily charts. This, coupled with the possibility of each US citizen receiving a $1000 check from the government signal bullish movements in the coming days.

Summary Article Name Chainlink (LINK) Continues Dip Below $2.00 USD Despite Poloniex Listing. Still Bullish? Description • Chainlink (LINK) dips by 3.15% in the past day as bulls struggle to cross the elusive $2.00 USD psychological mark. • Addition to Justin Sun’s, Poloniex cryptocurrency exchange did little to stop the bleed on LINK/USD pair. Author Lujan Odera Publisher Name Coingape Publisher Logo



Disclaimer The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Coingape is committed to following the highest standards of journalism, and therefore, it abides by a strict editorial policy . While CoinGape takes all the measures to ensure that the facts presented in its news articles are accurate.The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Instant loans by local bank transfer using your crypto as collateral