DATE:  18.03.2020, 11:08:08
TITLE: New York woman admits to using Bitcoin to fund ISIS
URL:   https://invezz.com/news/2020/03/18/new-york-woman-admits-to-using-bitcoin-to-fund-isis/

A Long Island-based woman, Zoobia Shahnaz, recently admitted to using Bitcoin (BTC) and other crypto assets to fund ISIS.

Shahnaz purchased $62.000 worth of BTC in 2017, obtaining the money via a dozen credit cards and even taking out a bank loan, delivering the coins to ISIS members.

She also visited jihad-related websites and chatrooms, and the search of her home uncovered numerous terrorism-related items.

A woman from New York has just been sentenced to 13 years in prison for funding terrorist activities. According to reports, Long Island woman, Zoobia Shahnaz pleaded guilty to funding the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS) through the world’s first and largest cryptocurrency, Bitcoin (BTC).

The US Department of Justice announced on March 13th that Dhahnaz defrauded a number of banks, using them to launder money and provide support for ISIS. She did so over the course of several months, between March 2017 and July 2017.

The report also explains that Shahnaz managed to get over a dozen credit cards from the banks, and even a loan of around $22,500. After obtaining the money, she purchased around $62,000 worth of Bitcoin and several other digital currencies.

After that, Shahnaz made a number of wire transfers to different individuals in Turkey, China, and Pakistan. The individuals in question were allegedly serving as fronts for ISIS.

Undeniable ties to the terrorist organization

In addition, Shahnaz also went on multiple violent websites related to jihad, as well as several message boards that are believed to be tied to ISIS financiers and recruiters. An insight into her internet history also revealed that she made a number of searches for information on how to enter Syria.

After the court issued a search warrant for her Long Island residence, the authorities also found multiple items of interest, including a photo of suicide belt explosives, jihad-related propaganda, and even a night vision scope.

According to the report, Shahnaz has been supplying terrorists for around five months, and during this time, she managed to deliver over $150,000 in funding.