DATE:  21.04.2019, 15:41:34
TITLE: Famous Bitcoin trader Tone Vays calls Litecoin [LTC], Monero [XMR], Ethereum[ETH] and XRP a scam
URL:   https://blockmanity.com/news/famous-bitcoin-trader-tone-vays-calls-litecoin-ltc-monero-xmr-ethereumeth-and-xrp-a-scam/

Prominent cryptocurrency trader, Tone Vays, took to Twitter to criticize every cryptocurrency projects that are not Bitcoin and labeling them as scams.

According to Tone Vays, honest PoW (Proof Of Work) blockchains such as Litecoin and Monero[XMR] are not scams but rather a waste of time. And centralized blockchains or PoS based blockchains such as Ethereum and XRP are outright scams. He even criticized ICOs such as BNB, EOS, and Cardano (ADA).

Tone Vays tweeted,

He attacked Ethereum further by stating that his uncle who has been a truck driver for over 40 years has been more useful to the society rather than an Ethereum developer. According to him, Ethereum developers are just wasting their time working on Ethereum.

I agree, they are not 'all scammers' most of them are just Stupid and are not very good developers, or they would have actual jobs and/or be useful to society. I report my uncle who has been a truck driver for 40 years more than any #ethereum developer. He helps society. — Tone Vays [#UnderstandBit] (@ToneVays) April 20, 2019

Tone Vays is pro-Bitcoin and has been trading since 2013, well before many other cryptocurrency projects were conceptualized. An economist, he was one of the first few people to recognize the long term potential of Bitcoin.

Disclaimer: Blockmanity is a news portal and does not provide any financial advice. Blockmanity's role is to inform the cryptocurrency and blockchain community about what's going on in this space. Please do your own due diligence before making any investment. Blockmanity won't be responsible for any loss of funds.

Get the latest news on Blockchain only on Blockmanity.com. Subscribe to us on Google news and do follow us on Twitter @Blockmanity

Did you like the news you just read? Please leave a feedback to help us serve you better