DATE:  20.09.2019, 08:28:21
TITLE: CME expands bitcoin footprint
URL:   https://www.chicagobusiness.com/finance-banking/cme-expands-bitcoin-footprint

While there are a host of different cryptocurrencies trading as electronic money all over the world, bitcoin has grown to become the largest and most popular of the new asset class.

There's already an options contract in the bitcoin market at international online venues like Deribit, but that trading originates overseas, so technically U.S. participants can't trade in it directly, though they can through intermediaries, including via some trading firms in Chicago. Still, that makes it "cumbersome" for U.S.-based participants trying to trade in existing bitcoin options because the market is "fragmented," says Brandon Elsasser, a Chicagoan who is the chief investment officer for the cryptocurrency hedge fund Victoria Capital. As a result, liquidity in that nascent market hasn't pooled as much as traders prefer, he said. There's been some anticipation in the market that CME would launch an options contract to follow its futures contract, and market participants hope it will help pool the liquidity in the bitcoin options market, Elsasser said. Victoria Capital has about $5 million under management and Elsasser also is a consultant in the industry.

Traders prefer more trading liquidity in any market because it creates more opportunities for buying and selling contracts.

While the 7,000 a day in bitcoin futures contracts traded at CME currently may seem paltry, Elsasser said that's a significant amount, given that each contract represents five bitcoins. Today, bitcoin was trading at about $10,155, according to CoinDesk. "That's actually a pretty good amount of volume compared to the spot exchanges locally," said Elsasser, referring to other exchanges that trade the currency itself.

Bitcoin has been incredibly volatile since trading in it has picked up in recent years, which is one reason it and other cryptocurrencies have attracted the interest of Chicago's professional traders, including DRW Holdings' Cumberland unit. Traders seek out some degree of volatility because price swings lead to more opportunities for profits on buying and selling of any asset.

Many participants in the cryptocurrency markets have been hoping big institutions like banks, pension funds and endowments would start trading in the cryptocurrency markets because that will help deepen the pool of liquidity, but that interest has been slow in arriving. CME said today that about 3,300 customer accounts have traded its bitcoin futures since their launch.

"Based on increasing client demand and robust growth in our Bitcoin futures markets, we believe the launch of options will provide our clients with additional flexibility to trade and hedge their bitcoin price risk," said Tim McCourt, CME's global head of equity index and alternative investment products. "These new products are designed to help institutions and professional traders to manage spot market bitcoin exposure, as well as hedge bitcoin futures positions in a regulated exchange environment."