DATE:  20.09.2019, 15:10:35
TITLE: Cyber attack that cost Stratford city hall $75K ransom should be wake-up call: Expert
URL:   https://www.stratfordbeaconherald.com/news/local-news/stratford-paid-more-than-75000-in-bitcoin-following-cyber-attack

STRATFORD – The cyber attack that forced Stratford city hall to pay a hacker $75,000 in Bitcoin shows the local government wasn’t properly protecting itself and should be a wake-up call to other municipalities, an expert says.

City hall officials say they paid 10 Bitcoins – a digital currency used to make online transactions, often on the so-called dark web – after the April 14 cyber attack, which crippled the municipal government’s computer systems.

That the government paid – on the advice of its insurer, the mayor says – shows there was “a significant weakness” in its cyber security strategy, says London-based tech analyst Carmi Levy.

“In the ideal world, nobody would have to pay one red cent in the wake of a ransomware attack because they will have already secured their data elsewhere,” Levy said.

“The fact Stratford self-compelled to pay means they weren’t backing their data properly, they weren’t testing restores and they were leaving themselves vulnerable and they got caught.”

Levy called these kinds of attacks “the new epidemic” in cyber security.

“If you are a government at any level – municipal, provincial, federal, regional – you have to expect that you are going to be targeted,” he said. “And if you are not ready for this specific type of attack, you are doing your citizens a disservice.”

Stratford officials have described the cyber attack as ransomware, a type of malicious computer program that denies access to the system or its data until a ransom is paid. If that ransom is paid, the hacker then provides a key or password that unlocks the data. In Stratford, the ransomware jammed the city’s email and telephone systems, as well as certain functions of its website.

City staff, however, said they found no evidence of data theft or transfer in the wake of the attack.

According to city hall documents, a hacker gained access to and executed malware on eight city government computer servers that contained personally identifiable information.

On the day of the attack, April 14, the city’s servers were disconnected from the internet to contain the attack. A few days later, April 17, the city started negotiations with the hacker over a ransom payment.

It was about a week later, April 25, when city hall officials and its contractor decrypted all the city’s computer systems after getting “decryption keys” from the hacker.

On April 29, about two weeks after the ransomware attack, the City of Stratford fully returned to normal business operations.

A police investigation, involving Stratford police and the Ontario Provincial Police, is ongoing.

In a Friday interview, Mayor Dan Mathieson said Stratford decided to pay the ransom “in consultation with our insurer and in the best interests of protecting data.”

Mathieson wouldn’t say how the amount or payment method for the ransom was reached, or whether the city was in direct communication with the attacker prior to ransom being paid.

In 2018, there were similar cyber attacks against municipal governments in Midland and Wasaga Beach. Midland eventually paid eight Bitcoins for an encryption key while Wasaga Beach paid three Bitcoins – roughly $35,000 at the time – to regain access to four of its computer servers.

Other cyber-criminals take a different approach.

In May, the City of Burlington lost more than $500,000 to a phishing scam when a municipal staffer was convinced to change banking information for an established city vendor. The treasurer of the City of Ottawa fell victim to a similar scam, transferring roughly $100,000 to a fraudulent account under what seemed to be the direction of the city manager.

Earlier this year, the Stratford Beacon Herald submitted a request to the city under the Municipal Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act for all documents and emails involving communications about the cyber attack, including communications referencing a ransom and crypto currency between the mayor, CAO, city staff and councillors.

On Aug. 13, the city requested a 90-day extension to respond.

gsimmons@postmedia.com

WHAT IS BITCOIN?