DATE:  30.08.2019, 10:27:11
TITLE: Bitcoin ATM’s will require licences to operate according to Nevada regulators
URL:   https://www.thesouthafrican.com/technology/cryptocurrencies/bitcoin-atms-will-require-licences-to-operate-according-to-nevada-regulators/

Bitcoin (BTC) and cryptocurrency ATM’s are required to have a licensing scheme as per a statement from authorities in Nevada.

ATM operators required to contact authorities

As per a statement released by Nevada Current, a local news publication, the state’s finance regulator, all crypto ATM operators are expected to conform to existing rules.

The statement reads:

“Any entity that facilitates the transmission of or holds fiat or digital currency by way of brick-and-mortar, kiosk, mobile, internet or any other means, should contact the NFID to request a licensure determination.”

Moreover, the statement also cites a legislative hearing which took place earlier this year, in which lawmakers failed to pass a specific amendment to licensing rules which would ultimately affect ATM operators. In addition to this amendment, several others are cited in the statement which pertains to money transmission.

The statement summarizes:

“Over time, the NFID has monitored the growth and expansion of the blockchain, bitcoin, and virtual currency industries.”

The statement continues:

“Recently, several businesses and interested persons contacted the NFID to determine if a license was required to operate within the State of Nevada. Based upon the business model presented, a license may have been required for money transmission under NRS Chapter 671.”

The Bitcoin ATM industry continues to flourish

As per CoinATMRadar, a monitoring resource, Nevada currently has 110 Bitcoin ATMs. Notably, the United States of America boasts more machines than any other nation. In fact, the U.S. accounts for close to 3500 of the global total of 5500 ATMs.

The crypto ATM industry continues to grow considerably, despite many claims that patronage is low as a result of the increased fees found when using them, compared to online alternatives.

Earlier this year in June, the mayor of Vancouver, Canada, stated that crypto ATM’s should be banned completely in light of money laundering concerns.