DATE:  30.08.2019, 12:03:15
TITLE: Check Out the New Featured Tokens on Bitcoin.com's Markets Page
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/check-out-the-new-featured-tokens-on-bitcoin-coms-markets-page/

Check Out the New Featured Tokens on Bitcoin.com's Markets Page

Markets.Bitcoin.com has just launched a Featured Tokens page, allowing coin creators with unique tokens to apply for a listing through a simple review process. Each token listed on Bitcoin.com’s upcoming exchange, launching Sep. 2, will also be listed at markets.Bitcoin.com, providing great exposure and detailed data for projects making a splash in the BCH community and elsewhere.

Also Read: PR: Australian Bitcoin Cash Conference Brings Cryptocurrency Leaders to Townsville

Featured Tokens Galore

Featured Tokens is a new section of markets.Bitcoin.com, displaying BCH-friendly tokens with unique selling points and offerings, vibrant communities, and a vision for a future of greater economic freedom.

Bitcoin Cash-based coins ACD, Spice (SPICE), and Honest Coin (USDH) have already been listed, and users of the markets page can get up-to-date info on each coin’s rank, price, market cap, 24-hr volume, and top markets. Coin metadata such as algorithm, proof type, supply, and max supply are also listed. An easy-to-use interactive candlestick chart provides a user-friendly interface for token price data exploration.

ACD Coin

Alliance Cargo Direct token (ACD) seeks to deliver “Cross-border e-commerce to the next generation.” Tokyo-based ACD Inc. is funded by ANA Holdings, a subsidiary of All Nippon Airways, the largest airline in Japan in terms of passengers and revenue. In a 2018 joint press release announcing a strategic partnership with Bitcoin.com, ACD CEO Yasuhiro Sonoda stated that “After extensive research into different cryptocurrencies on the market, ACD chose to implement Bitcoin Cash as a new payment method. This will benefit our customers by offering fast, cheap and reliable worldwide transactions for both online and offline payments.” In May, the company announced its Coin Buy Back Project to provide greater liquidity to the market, add value to ACD, and return value from profits to the community.

The ACD token is a link between the Bitcoin Cash community and one of the biggest players in the global travel industry. ACD is listed on the Digifinex and Coinsuper exchanges.

Spice

The successful Spice (SPICE) token, created as a homage to Coinspice, is creating quite a buzz in the BCH space and beyond, thanks in part to a lively community of enthusiasts who love the Coinspice style of “a feisty pirate ship, dedicated to covering just spicy crypto things.” Not officially affiliated with Coinspice proper, the token has taken on a life of its own. According to coinspice.io:

“Those who contribute to the project understand cryptocurrency’s main focus: currency, cash, separating governments and money, with the hope of liberating a lot of people in the process. SPICE token is simply a fun way to experiment with the tech along that journey.”

The Spice community lives up to the description, keeping things spicy with SPICE tipbots on Telegram and Twitter, an RSS feed, and a faucet. The BCH-native Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) token is supported by the Badger, Electron Cash, Monarch and Crescent wallets.

Honest Coin

Honest Coin (USDH) is a U.S. dollar-backed stable coin created on the Bitcoin Cash blockchain. The Honest Pay smartphone app and the Honest Financial App seek to provide users with both security and freedom in exchange, offering diverse payment options as well as investment opportunities. According to the website:

HonestCoin (USDH) is a fully regulated, 1:1 U.S. Dollar-backed stablecoin that can be bought, sold, invested in or spent as freely as you wish.

According to honestcoin.io, merchant applications are also coming soon. Honest Coin, a partner with Bitcoin.com’s Badger Wallet, invites users to “Buy, sell, invest, trade, earn and pay with our proprietary multi-functional tools and channels.”

How to Get Your Token Listed

Featured Tokens at markets.Bitcoin.com are those with a significant market cap, unique concept, and strong vision and community, working together in synergistic support with Bitcoin.com and Bitcoin Cash. SLPs built on the BCH network are the building blocks of a brand new coin ecosystem, providing liquidity, flexibility, and fun to the already robust BCH protocol. While BCH-based coins are largely the focus, and a big bonus in the application process, being built on-chain is not necessarily a prerequisite for qualification. To apply for a listing, simply head over to the Featured Tokens page, scroll down to the “Apply here” link, and complete the short application.

Users are directed to answer a series of simple questions about their token’s specs, and then submit the application for review. With exchange.Bitcoin.com launching in just a few days, on September 2, there’s no better time to get active and engaged, and discover the unique options that Featured Tokens on markets.Bitcoin.com has to offer.

What are your thoughts on the new Featured Tokens page? Would you like to be featured there? Let us know in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Are you feeling lucky? Visit our official Bitcoin casino where you can play BCH slots, BCH poker, and many more BCH games. Every game has a progressive Bitcoin Cash jackpot to be won!