DATE:  30.08.2019, 23:30:28
TITLE: Samsung Galaxy S10 Supports Bitcoin and 32 other Cryptos
URL:   https://www.namecoinnews.com/samsung-galaxy-s10-supports-bitcoin-and-32-other-cryptos/

In August, Samsung is a South Korean company that added Bitcoin and 32 other cryptocurrencies in a Blockchain wallet in its smartphone S10. In a national daily newspaper, Seoul Kyungjae reported Ethereum and BTC wallets are automatically generated on Samsung smartphone device S10. A user can add a new token or coin in their wallet.

33 cryptocurrencies are compatible with the phone. It includes Pundi’s NPXS token, Basic Attention Token (BAT) and Maker (MKR). Besides this, accounts are visible for USD coin, Binance Coin, and TrueUSD.

As per the information updated by the developers of Samsung, the Keystore supports Bitcoin as well as Klaytn, which is a cryptocurrency by Korean internet giant kakao. In the Blockchain Keystore, there are six available devices such as Galaxy S10e, S10, S10+, S10 5G, Note 10 and Note 10+. This Keystore was released in July as Samsung’s blockchain and dapp SDK which provides the facility to manage the account, backup, payment as well as digital signature facilitation. It only supports Ethereum blockchain.

The spokesperson of the Samsung Galaxy store stated that soon, there would be an option for the customers to create a wallet for tokens which can be used by Samsung affiliated dapps.

It was reported previously that Samsung indicated the addition of the support of Bitcoin when a notice is posted about the Blockchain Software Development Kit (SDK) on its developer’s website. The following kit is restricted in some of the regions like Canada, Spain, South Korea, Switzerland, Germany, the UK and the United States of America.

There are a million of users who use Samsung smartphones. They can use Bitcoin in the apps with the help of Blockchain Wallet. This year, the company starts its flagship with the S10 model. According to Seoul Kyungjae, a Dent decentralized app is added by Samsung to its store. It allows users to trade mobile data using PayPal and cryptocurrencies.

Just like Samsung, Taiwanese consumer electronics HTC launched a blockchain smartphone which is named Exodus in fall 2018. Israeli Sirin Labs also launched Finney blockchain smartphone in 2018 but forced to lay off a quarter during the 2018-19 cryptocurrency bear market.