DATE:  30.08.2019, 09:28:09
TITLE: This Bitcoin Bird Feeder Has Reddit Flocking to Spend Crypto
URL:   https://www.ccn.com/bitcoin-birds-reddit-nano-crypto/

Bitcoin may not be for the birds afterall. An interactive bird-feeder which is being live-streamed via YouTube allows users to feed birds with cryptocurrency donations.

Despite Bitcoin being the largest, most well-known cryptocurrency in the world, it seems that animal lovers are more fond of the altcoins Nano (NANO) and Litecoin (LTC).

A check of the blockchain explorers for the four crypto addresses listed reveals Nano and Litecoin to be the most donated currencies by a large margin.

Animal Lovers Prefer Nano

The interactive bird-feeder livestream accepts donations in the form of 4 different cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin (BTC), Litecoin (LTC), Dogecoin (DOGE) and Nano (NANO).

Since the livestream began at the start of August, each of the currency addresses have received varying numbers of donations. Bitcoin has received the fewest of all, with just one donation of 0.00005285 BTC, equating to the $0.50 minimum amount.

The Dogecoin address received three donations of around the minimum amount, amounting to 659.01944314 DOGE, or $1.61.

Meanwhile, the Litecoin address had received 20 donations by time of writing. Those 20 transactions add up to 0.08073347 LTC, or $5.39 by the current exchange rate.

However, Nano holders proved to be most fond of the birds as $44.31 worth of NANO was sent to the listed address. That was split between 20 different transactions, and amounted to 46.416217 NANO coins.

Where are you BTC hodlers?

Perhaps it’s Bitcoin’s ecological footprint which keeps the bird-lovers away. Or maybe Nano’s dominance is due to the fact that transactions on Nano are literally free. Free is a lot less than the $1 dollar average transaction fee on Bitcoin at time of writing. Likewise, Litecoin’s average fees are around $0.03 according to Bitinfocharts.

The minimum donation amount of $0.50 is less than the amount it would take to send it using Bitcoin. That’s unless users choose to utilize off-chain scaling solutions like SegWit. Here we see a real-world example of the inability of Bitcoin to be used for micropayments.

Or given that every donation triggers a new batch of food to be dropped into the bird-cage (producing some hilarious results), perhaps Bitcoin holders are spacing out their donations to prevent overfeeding.