DATE:  10.03.2020, 20:39:31
TITLE: Bovada Upgrades Their Bitcoin Bonus | Now Offers $750 BTC Promo!
URL:   https://www.safestbettingsites.com/blog/bovada-increases-bitcoin-bonus-750

Bovada Upgrades Their Bitcoin Bonus | Now Offers $750 BTC Promo!

Bovada.lv is one of our top-rated online sportsbooks and has upgraded its Bitcoin bonus offer!

The famous sportsbook offers all users a general Welcome Bonus up to $250. On top of this, they have a bonus for each account that makes their first deposit using Bitcoin or Bitcoin Cash.

Bitcoin is super easy to use, and this offer is one where every sports bettor can take advantage. At a trusted betting site like Bovada, it is a no-brainer.

Deposit Using Bitcoin And Get $750 In Free Play

Previously, Bovada offered users who have never deposited with cryptocurrencies a 50% Match Bonus up to $500. However, just in time for March Madness, they have upped this promotion and made it more rewarding for you.

The $750 Bitcoin Sports Bonus offered at Bovada is a 75% Bitcoin Match Bonus good up to $750. To take full advantage of the bonus and receive $750 in free play, you would need to deposit $1,000.

You can still enhance your bankroll with BTC and Bitcoin Cash deposits as low as $10.

Why Should You Take Advantage Of This Bonus?

Simple. Bovada is perhaps the most trusted betting site online, and this bonus is one of their best offers in quite awhile. Their payouts are fast, their software is elite, and they have markets for nearly every sport in the world. Best of all, they’re one of the few sportsbooks online that has a VIP or rewards program for every wager placed.

If you’re new to cryptocurrencies, don’t worry. At first, they may seem daunting, but the process of depositing and withdrawing Bitcoin or Bitcoin Cash at online betting sites is straightforward.

More importantly, using cryptocurrencies will save you money in the short and long term. They are more convenient than traditional fiat-based alternatives. These are some of its benefits:

Deposits and withdrawals are free.

They have an acceptance rate of 100% at online sportsbooks.

at online sportsbooks. Sportsbooks offer bonuses that cater to crypto and bitcoin users (such as Bovada).

They provide more privacy than depositing with a credit or debit card.

Payouts are much faster compared to check by mail or bank wires.

How To Claim Your Bovada Bitcoin Sports Bonus

Log into your Bovada account or sign-up if you are new to the site. Go to the cashier section and choose the Deposit option. Look for the available bonuses for that method. You can input the bonus code BTCSWB750 if you do not see the bonus available in your cashier options. Select the amount, and make your Bitcoin or Bitcoin Cash deposit. The bonus will be credited to your account once your deposit is confirmed.

Terms And Conditions

The bonus can only be used once, on your first deposit, using Bitcoin or Bitcoin Cash.

It must be used in the sportsbook, racebook, or casino. It is not available for poker.

The bonus can be wagered on any sport, wager type, and odds.

The rollover on this bonus is 5x in the sportsbook, 5x betting horses, and 30x in the casino.

Joseph Falchetti - Editor-in-Chief / Sports Writer & Analyst Joe is the author of the blog, most picks, and the majority of excellent content on SafestBettingSites. He's been mentioned on Forbes.com as a gaming analyst and his articles have been linked by larger publications, such as the New York Times. @SBS_Authority

[email protected]

Joseph Falchetti Bio

Share with your friends: