DATE:  10.03.2020, 17:30:32
TITLE: CoinTracking.info Helps Crypto Traders Avoid Costly Tax Mistakes
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/cointracking-info-helps-crypto-traders-avoid-costly-tax-mistakes/

CoinTracking.info Helps Crypto Traders Avoid Costly Tax Mistakes

MUNICH, Germany, March 10, 2020 — CoinTracking.info, the world’s most popular cryptocurrency tax software, is announcing the launch of a new service aimed at helping crypto traders avoid a common tax-time mistake: submitting incomplete or incorrect data to the IRS.

Many cryptocurrency traders don’t even know that their return isn’t right. Some of the most popular crypto exchanges fail to provide their customers with good export features. As a result, customers of these exchanges end up submitting error-riddled tax returns to the IRS.

“Even a small amount of missing data or an honest accounting error can have a big impact,” says CPA Sharon Yip of CT Tax Services LLC, part of the U.S. accounting firm Accointax, “If you file correctly the first time, you can avoid costly audits and penalties later.”

CoinTracking’s new plan– dubbed CoinTracking Full-Service– is available now. Crypto traders can use it to verify their trading data before they submit their 2019 tax returns and/or amend their prior year tax returns if they have never reported their crypto transactions before.

Authoritative answers to complicated crypto tax questions

Whether you’re a casual trader or a seasoned pro, CoinTracking’s Full-Service CPAs and EAs will guide you through the process of completing your crypto tax reports from start to finish. Your qualified crypto tax experts will help you correctly account for ICOs, closed exchanges, margin trades, automated trading bots, lost coins, hacked wallets, leveraged trades such as Maker CDPs and many other complicated crypto tax issues.

Have a qualified expert review or prepare your crypto taxes

We currently offer two levels of service: (1) CT Crypto Tax Expert Review and (2) CoinTracking Full-Service. After you fill in a short form, the Full-Service team will provide a cost estimate within 48 hours. You’ll then receive an invoice for the retainer fee if you accept. Upon receipt of payment, a crypto tax professional will work with you and begin the process of reconciling your account and completing your tax report.

Full-Service is available to all English-speaking CoinTracking users in all countries, and we have helped many CoinTracking users around the world to reconcile their crypto transactions. However, for tax treatment of some specific issues, currently the Full-Service team can only handle cases under the U.S. tax law. If you are located outside of the U.S. and need help with those country-specific tax issues, please consult a tax advisor in your own country.

Straightforward billing and reasonable prices

Prices start at just $150 for a crypto tax expert review, making it one of the most affordable tax services of its kind on the market. A professional review will identify any potential problems with your account and provide you with advice for sorting it out on your own, or you can hire our Full-Service team to help you fix all the issues. The hourly fee for more advanced services ranges from $250 to $300, depending on the level of complexity involved. CoinTracking Unlimited subscribers will receive a 20% discount on their Full-Service fees.

About CoinTracking.info

CoinTracking was founded in 2012 and went online in April 2013 as the world’s first cryptocurrency tax reporting tool and portfolio manager. Since its inception, CoinTracking has accumulated over 528,000 users. The total value of its users’ profiles exceeds $4.3 billion USD and its team of advisors consists of more than 100 tax professionals located all over the world.

Press Contact Email Address

alex@cointracking.info

Supporting Link

https://cointracking.info

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.