DATE:  10.03.2020, 19:15:38
TITLE: Cosmos (Atom) recovers as Binance US announces Staking Support
URL:   https://coingape.com/cosmos-atom-recovers-as-binance-us-announces-staking-support/

Binance US has announced plans of listing Atom, the native currency of the interoperable blockchain, Cosmos, on its staking platform.

Advertisement

Amid these news, Atom has recovered from last week’s lows and is up 3% in the last trading day but still down double-digits week-to-date.

Crypto Market Plunging

In all fairness, the crypto market is still under bear grip and despite bullish news, it will take a lot of convincing for traders to shift from the safety of fiat and stable coins.

Stable coins, given the high demand, are trading at a premium, in green and for each USD converted to USDT, for instance, fewer coins will be yielded.

At the time of going to press, each USDT which is backed by fiat and other liquid assets, is trading at $1.01 for every USD deposited.

Advertisement

Cosmos (Atom) and the Security of Proof-of-Stake

For Atom holders, this is bullish news.

It is even better for the safety of the network because Atom will earn rewards from user funds and redistribute them to holders.

In the Proof-of-Stake network of which Ethereum will soon shift to, Staking is vital for the safety of the network. Unlike Proof-of-Work networks like Bitcoin which gobbles up huge amounts of electricity and requires expensive gear from China, Proof-of-Stake systems require nothing more than the native’s currency coins.

For their commitment, validators—who can receive coins from coin holders through delegation—and this is what Binance would do, are rewarded.

Cosmos-based Kava listed at Binance Staking Platform

Kava, a cross-chain DeFi platform that is based on Cosmos, is one of the many coins that are listed on Binance Staking.

Holders of Kava receive anywhere between 14-16% in annual yields while the minimum holding is 1 Kava.

Binance US now says users without Atom can purchase them since the exchange already supports Atom trading pairs.

For rewards, the exchange will take hourly snapshots. Rewards will be calculated daily and distributed monthly.

Binance received $5 million worth of Tether ( USDT)

Earlier, it was reported that just over $5 million worth of USDT had been moved from an unknown wallet to Binance. The move, observers say, is a mark of market confidence and a possibility of market revival.

Summary Article Name Cosmos (Atom) recovers as Binance US announces Staking Support Description Binance US has announced plans of listing Atom, the native currency of the interoperable blockchain Cosmos, on its staking platform. Author Dalmas Ngetich Publisher Name CoinGape Publisher Logo

Binance Futures Limited Offer: Use Use this link to register & get 10% discount on fees.



Disclaimer The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Coingape is committed to following the highest standards of journalism, and therefore, it abides by a strict editorial policy . While CoinGape takes all the measures to ensure that the facts presented in its news articles are accurate.The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Instant loans by local bank transfer using your crypto as collateral