DATE:  10.03.2020, 18:50:31
TITLE: SLP Token Fuels Scooter Rental Business in Taiwan, Investors to Get Their Dividends in BCH
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/slp-token-fuels-scooter-rental-business/

SLP Token Fuels Scooter Rental Business in Taiwan, Investors to Get Their Dividends in BCH

A company running a small scooter rental service in Taipei, Taiwan’s capital city, has minted an SLP token on the Bitcoin Cash network to support its business and to attract investors and customers. The company issues its own cryptocurrency, a Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) token. SLP is a token-based protocol built on top of the Bitcoin Cash (BCH) blockchain. It facilitates the creation of tokens that can serve various purposes depending on the needs of the issuer.

Also read: SLP Token Trading Platform Cryptophyl Adds BTC Pair With Bitcoin Cash at Flat 0.15% Fee

Taipei Scooter Offers Tourists a Fun Way to Get Around

Motor scooters are arguably the most popular means of transportation in Taiwan, a common sight on the roads of the densely populated island where there are almost 600 scooters per 1,000 people. In central Taipei, however, with its narrow streets and pedestrian areas, electric kick scooters have been gaining ground too. Locals and visitors alike often choose this smart and efficient way to move around in the urban jungle at a pretty low cost and without any carbon footprint.

Taipei Scooter is one of the scooter rental services in downtown Taipei. It operates in the heart of Ximending, a famous shopping and nightlife district of the Taiwanese capital. The company offers tourists and other customers the popular Segway model Ninebot Kickscooter ES2 at a $100 Taiwan dollars ($3.34) regular hourly rate and a daily rent of $600 (approximately $20). There are discounts too – the price for those who pay with crypto is at least 50% lower.

The company issues its own cryptocurrency, Taiwan Ebike Coin (E-BIKE), which is a Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) token. SLP is a token-based protocol built on top of the Bitcoin Cash blockchain. It facilitates the creation of tokens that can serve various purposes depending on the needs of the issuer. Taipei Scooter is among a growing number of companies that see an opportunity to benefit from the flexibility SLP tokens offer.

Taiwan Ebike Coin Minted for Investors and Customers

E-bike also serves as an instrument to invest in the rental business which, according to its website, operates 15 electric scooters in the Taiwanese metropolis. The shop on 33 Hanzhong Street brings an average rental income of 5,000 Taiwan dollars daily (around US$170). The promise is that all profits will be distributed among Taiwan Ebike Coin holders, along with the rental fees special investors are entitled to. The company plans to pay out the dividends in BCH once every two months.

According to the Bitcoin Cash Block Explorer, Taiwan Ebike Coin was issued in December 2019. It has 104 token addresses now and 723 valid transactions since genesis. The circulating supply is 4,020,809,770. Taipei Scooter’s account on the BCH-based social network memo.cash, Taiwanebike, has been tipping followers with E-BIKE coins in the past several months. The company admits that travel bans related to the coronavirus outbreak have been hurting the tourist industry, although Taiwan is less affected by the epidemic than other countries in the region.

What do you think of Taipei Scooter’s efforts to attract investors and customers using an SLP token? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Taipei Scooter.

Are you a developer looking to build on Bitcoin Cash? Head over to our Bitcoin Developer page where you can get Bitcoin Cash developer guides and start using the Bitbox, SLP, and Badger Wallet SDKs.