DATE:  10.03.2020, 19:18:52
TITLE: The Art of Bitcoin
URL:   https://bitcoinmagazine.com/issue/the-art-of-bitcoin

Bitcoin is more than an immutable transaction ledger, more than programmable money. Through its promise to fundamentally change the way we transact, share information and organize our society, Bitcoin is a cultural revolution. This is made clear by the art it inspires.

The work of self-described propagandist Lucho Poletti, for instance, combines imagery from wartime posters, doctors’ adverts and religious symbolism with Bitcoin-specific icons and messages to convey the importance of this revolution.

“It’s glorifying Bitcoin and putting down paper money,” he told us.

Meanwhile, graphic designer Martin Fischer, who created the logo for Czech cryptoanarchy haven Paralelní Polis, is creating work that explores the subversive aspects of Bitcoin culture. Like Poletti, the ethos of Bitcoin is evident in his work, but he’s less concerned with motivating adoption than capturing something about this technology for us to look back on.

“My art is for those who already know, and absolutely not understandable for people from outside the crypto community … which I love,” Fischer told our Aaron van Wirdum.

Writing for Bitcoin Magazine, multimedia artist Brekkie von Bitcoin expanded on the potential for artwork to incorporate the technology itself, describing the burgeoning journey to incorporate Bitcoin-based NFTs.

“The ways in which NFTs are being issued and utilized by artists is still being figured out,” he wrote. “Artists are experimenting, finding out through trial and error, what works and what doesn’t, and there is no right way to do it.”

And, of course, art is baked into Bitcoin itself through its now-iconic logo. Diving into the history of the Bitcoin emblem, staff writer Colin Harper revealed the grassroots effort and detailed thinking that went into the way Bitcoiners present their tribe.

This is the art of Bitcoin.

Thank you to Brekkie von Bitcoin for his guest contribution this week.

Also, massive shout out to our in-house design team that helped structure this week’s issue: Pat Riley, Nicki DiCicco and Tommy Marsheschi. They have each been integral in the development of Bitcoin Magazine and the Bitcoin conferences. You can find their handiwork on every single one of our articles, but go give them a follow for more great art, too.