DATE:  21.02.2019, 13:20:46
TITLE: Grosvenor UK Poker Tour Coming to Liverpool in May
URL:   https://www.bestonlinecasinosites.com/news/grosvenor-uk-poker-tour-coming-to-liverpool-in-may/

Every avid poker player in the United Kingdom will be aware of the highly acclaimed Grosvenor UK Poker Tour which is arguably one of the biggest poker tournaments on the planet. As expected, with the beginning of a new year, poker players get to be treated to a series of fun and exciting events and 2019 will be no exception with several different gaming events affiliated with the Grosvenor UK Poker Tour scheduled for throughout the year. As it stands, the 25/25 portion of the tournament which is being held across several different locations in the UK, is currently underway and you can get to be a part of the action if you want to.

Perhaps one of the most exciting legs of the tour will be the one that will go down in Grosvenor Casino Liverpool between May 9 and May 12. The casino which is located at 44 Chaloner Street in Liverpool is one of the most popular gaming spots in the country not just because of the free picking but also because of the outstanding gaming products they offer.

While poker is definitely the main focus of the Grosvenor UK Poker Tour, players will still have the opportunity to enjoy much more than just the card games. For instance, slot machines, which are quite popular in the United Kingdom, are offered at Grosvenor Casino and if you play it right you might even get to walk away with a huge payout from a very small wager. Well, poker is a great social game and there are just as many opportunities to win huge cash prizes but if you are looking for something fast-paced and exciting then Grosvenor will have just what you need. You can even check out their online site to catch a glimpse of what you should expect at their brick-and-mortar casino

What to Expect

Even though poker enthusiasts from all over the world will be able to live stream the action, the players who are looking to take the experience a notch higher can either try to qualify for a spot at the tournament tables or go to Liverpool to experience everything in person. Qualifiers for the tournament will be held online or at any local casino throughout the week and so long as you cover the buy-in, you will be able allowed an unlimited number of re-entries for play once you are accepted.

The tournament event will feature several professional and amateur poker players battling it out for the top prize. Rest assured that the action will be like no other since the event will involve the very best poker talents from all corners of the United Kingdom.