DATE:  06.06.2019, 11:45:39
TITLE: Greenpages.cash Will Help You Find Merchants Accepting Bitcoin Cash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/greenpages-cash-will-help-you-find-merchants-accepting-bitcoin-cash/

Greenpages.cash Will Help You Find Merchants Accepting Bitcoin Cash

Cryptocurrency needs places where you can spend it. Bitcoin cash, with its low-cost and fast transactions, is a good option for merchants and buyers. A platform called Greenpages.cash helps you find stores that will readily accept your BCH.

Also read: New Browser Extension Enhances BCH Addresses for Easy Tipping

BCH Merchant Directory Lists Over 1,000 Stores

Greenpages.cash is a community-maintained BCH merchant directory that currently lists well over 1,000 merchants processing bitcoin cash payments. You can find both brick and mortar and online stores accepting BCH. A useful search feature allows you to look for a particular platform by name, product and service, or location.

The website offers many filtering options that will let you pull listings by categories. For example, you can search for physical stores where bitcoin cash is accepted. Alternatively, you can find gift card sellers and Openbazaar vendors. You can also select products and services offered on the Forra online marketplace or reachable via the Tor browser.

Green Pages has a separate section for merchants selling gift cards which offer you a great opportunity to spend BCH indirectly in stores that don’t currently accept cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin.com is one of the listed vendors. Check out our Spend Bitcoin Cash page, where you can shop online for a variety of products and order gift cards of major retailers such as Adidas, Macy’s, and The Home Depot.

The BCH merchant directory has an interactive map that allows you to locate hundreds of stores around the world where bitcoin cash is accepted for payments. The page lets you calculate the price of the cryptocurrency in U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds or Chinese yuan. You can also learn the latest news and developments in the crypto space from news.Bitcoin.com.

What other platforms listing BCH supporting merchants do you know? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Greenpages.cash.

Enjoy the easiest way to buy Bitcoin online with us. Download your free Bitcoin wallet and head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can buy BCH and BTC securely.