DATE:  23.01.2020, 20:00:06
TITLE: Bitcoin Games Celebrates Lunar New Year 2020 With Introduction of Free Spins
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-games-celebrates-lunar-new-year-2020-with-introduction-of-free-spins/

Bitcoin Games Celebrates Lunar New Year 2020 With Introduction of Free Spins

Bitcoin Games is a provably fair online casino where you can play popular games using BTC and BCH. The platform is introducing a new feature and for its Lunar New Year 2020 promotion all players can get Red Envelopes packed with Free Spins.



Also Read: Video Games Giant Ubisoft Is Looking for Blockchain Startups to Support

Bitcoin Games Introduces Free Spins on Lunar New Year

A new moon will appear on 25th January 2020, and with it, the Lunar New Year festivities will begin in Asia and across the world. According to the Chinese Zodiac, the main zodiac element of this year is Metal, and the animal sign is Rat. Hence 2020 will be the Year of the Metal Rat. While a significant portion of the world’s population celebrates the onset of the Lunar New Year, Bitcoin Games promises to bring a new source of joy for its community of players with the introduction of Free Spins.

“It is said that in the Year of the Metal Rat, everyone has control of their own destiny provided you put in plenty of effort and play your cards right”, explained the lead developer of the platform. “The introduction of Free Spins on Bitcoin Games is the result of our efforts and hard work that has allowed us to bring this new feature for our community to fulfill their destiny. Bitcoin Games wishes everyone a good fortune!”

To celebrate this accomplishment with the advent of the Lunar New Year at Games.Bitcoin.com, beginning 23rd January 2020 (00:00 GMT), all Bitcoin Games players can participate in the Lunar New Year 2020 promotion and get Red Envelopes packed with Free Spins simply by depositing and wagering on any of the Exclusives at games.bitcoin.com; namely Slots, Roulette or Keno.

For more information please visit the promotion’s terms and conditions page on the website.

Bitcoin Games is a provably fair online casino where you can play popular games using BTC and BCH. It offers a multitude of online casino games with the added security and transparency of the blockchain.

What do you think about this Chinese New Year offer from Bitcoin Games? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.