DATE:  23.01.2020, 11:19:59
TITLE: Pornhub Adds Tether for Payment via TRON Wallet after PayPal Pull-Out
URL:   https://www.coinspeaker.com/pornhub-tether-payment-tron-wallet/

Pornhub is expanding the range of payment options for the users of the website. One of the new options is a cryptocurrency – Tether (USDT).

Tether (USDT) now joins Pornhub payment options along with Cosmo Payments which is a global payment processing app. Plus all that, the popular porn site added a direct deposit option for Australia and Puerto Rico.

Heads up Models! We just added USDT, @CosmoPayment & more to our Payment Method options!

Click here for details: https://t.co/LgyZuMasd4#USDT #Cosmopayment pic.twitter.com/BcnzK5Z6RN — Pornhub Model Help & Updates ✈️ XBIZ LA + AVN 2020 (@PornhubHelp) January 22, 2020

Pornhub is known as the company which likes to experiment in terms of payment options for their models. Of course, it’s not something out of thin air, mainly it’s because they have no other options. Pornhub had talked about accepting many cryptocurrencies in the past, with Zcash (ZEC) and Tron (TRX) being a couple of them. While these two never made it to the actual website, Verge (XVG) did. Now, ever since April 2018, it is one of the top payment options on Pornhub.

Additionally, in November 2019, PayPal decided to end all relationships with Pronhub and cut off its payment services. This, of course, fundamentally changed the way and manner in which the performers were able to receive their funds.

“Since PayPal’s decision to stop payouts to thousands of Models two months ago, we’ve been hustling to start the new year on a good note and offer you more options to make things a little easier,” wrote Pornhub in their blogpost.

This significantly affected either the community and the price of Verge as many models turned to a more decentralized payment option. Also, back then the price of XVG jumped more than 40%.

Now USDT joins Pornhub with the help of Tron Foundation. Why Tron? Well, Tether uses the TRONLink wallet for transacting USDT. Previously we reported that Tron partnered with Tether to launch the stablecoin on the Tron blockchain. It’s an effort to pursue the launch of the dollar-pegged USDT stablecoin as a TRC-20 token. The Tron blockchain uses a technical standard – TRC-20 which is similar to and compatible with Ethereum’s ERC-20 standard.

Pornhub writes that USDT transactions “can be done globally within a few seconds and there are no fees”. Next, they step-by-step explain how to use the TRONLink wallet and how to transact USDT on it. Also, Justin Sun took it to Twitter and urged everyone “to stop what they’re doing” on Pornhub.

If you’re on @Pornhub, stop what you’re doing. #USDT is now an option for models on Pornhub! Pornhub is using USDT-TRON to support models seeking payment solutions. This is a brilliant way to support the victims of centralized payment platforms like PayPal. #TRON #TRX https://t.co/qwpMf0LgmS — Justin Sun (@justinsuntron) January 22, 2020

Many replies to Justin’s tweet seem rather disappointing. The community feels like it’s a bad idea to be associated with the porn industry and implies that Porn is free. They don’t understand why would somebody use these payment options to pay individual models.

Author: Janis Rijnieks Janis is a cryptocurrency enthusiast and a bitcoin adherent. He has a background in video production, but for the past couple of years, he is a full-time crypto researcher and writer. He has a good understanding of multiple cryptocurrencies and loves to cover daily news. He considers himself a semi-bitcoin maximalist but always is open to any kind of new ideas that could be put on the blockchain. In his free time, he likes skateboarding and cars.