DATE:  17.03.2019, 22:26:58
TITLE: When Pakistan Makes it to Bitcoin Headlines, it Does For All the Right Reasons
URL:   https://blockpublisher.com/when-pakistan-makes-it-to-bitcoin-headlines-it-does-for-all-the-right-reasons/

A nation born under corruption cases and leaders, we make sure to make our mark wherever we go. We truly are legen – wait for it – dary!

This legendary tale took place in Dubai where three Pakistani citizens were charged for allegedly stealing approximately $250,000 or 1 million Dirhams.

The three Pakistani’s played a dirty little trick by luring the Chinese businessman through a Facebook post. If you aren’t Pakistani then you don’t know what games we employ to scam people through social media. For men, it starts out early as they so easily fool girls into dating them and that too, without having been met once!

So the Pakistani’s posted a cryptocurrency deal on Facebook and showed the victim proof that they have the amount that they were trying to sell.We are assuming that they convinced the businessman to come to their apartment where they supposed to make the trade.

When the unsuspecting victims arrived, they were confronted by accomplices of the guilty party. The were disguised as local police officials and they tied the businessmen up and physically restrained them. However, the plan fell apart when one of the men managed to break free and ran away from the crime scene. Eventually, the police did arrive but by then the attackers had managed to get away with approximately 1 million Dirhams and other valuable items.

The police ran a search of the license plate of the criminals in which they had escaped. They were reportedly successful in tracking down the attackers who had choreographed this entire crime.

Up till now eight criminals have been charged for crypto-related crimes. Out of which three have been sentenced, whereas for the rest, no final verdict has been passed as their cases lack information. The three that have been prosecuted happen to be the three Pakistani men that were caught. The incident reported that they were identified as Pakistani’s and are 38 years of age. Each of them has been sentenced to one year in prison.

Back in Pakistan people don’t seem to have a lot of knowledge regarding Bitcoin. It is deemed illegal here as well.

Over the years crypto related crime has increased all over the world. In September 2018, Louis Meza pleaded guilty for orchestrating a kidnapping and stealing ether worth more than $1.8 million. While this other group of friends tried obtaining their friend’s crypto wallet by assaulting him while he was drunk.

A lot of people are after crypto so you have to be careful. No one is nice enough to give you extra bitcoins for nothing. Just remember, nothing in this world comes free and no Facebook post will be willing to give you any.