DATE:  03.11.2019, 12:58:36
TITLE: Crypto Pioneer Gifts Bruce Willis with Bitcoin in Gold-Plated Wallets
URL:   https://www.ccn.com/crypto-pioneer-gifts-bruce-willis-with-bitcoin-in-gold-plated-wallets/

Crypto entrepreneur Bobby Lee has gifted Bruce Willis some bitcoin in Ballet wallets.

The digital coins were handed to him as Christmas gifts for his daughters.

Crypto investors and celebrities invested in digital currencies are increasing awareness efforts.

Action movie star Bruce Willis has received a surprise gift after bumping into bitcoin crusader, Bobby Lee. Lee is the CEO and co-founder of BTC China. His company, BTCC, was founded in 2011 and is credited as the first bitcoin exchange in the country. Most recently Lee launched the Ballet cryptocurrency wallet.

Narrating the encounter on Twitter, Lee said that he was lucky to have sat next to the veteran actor while on a plane to China. He seized the moment to introduce bitcoin and his company’s Ballet crypto wallets to the 64-year-old Hollywood star. The investor also transferred 0.01 BTC to two gold-plated wallets via Wi-Fi, which he handed to Willis as Christmas gifts for his two daughters.

In another post, Bobby Lee additionally revealed that he had gifted Dr. Ron Paul, a former Texas Congressman, some BTC loaded on a gold-plated Ballet crypto wallet bearing a serial number matching his birthday.

Bruce Willis and Ron Paul join a growing list of celebrities who own bitcoin. Another notable name of a star who is seemingly deeply invested in cryptocurrencies includes Ashton Kutcher. He is a co-founder at A-Grade Investments, a firm that also backs BitPay. Bitpay allows merchants to accept payments in bitcoin.

In May last year, Kutcher surprised show-host Ellen DeGeneres with a $4 million donation to her charity in XRP. The donation was made on behalf of Ripple, the company behind the XRP cryptocurrency.

The wealthiest celebrities in crypto circles right now are Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss. Widely known as the Winklevoss twins, the two venture capitalists are also former Olympics participants and are believed to own a bitcoin stash valued at over $1 billion.

Efforts to Increase Crypto Awareness

Celebrities involved in crypto, as well as famous investors, are becoming more active in increasing crypto awareness. Current survey reports indicate that bitcoin and cryptocurrency awareness is rising but remains low among the general population. According to one such study carried out by The Harris Poll, only about 11 percent of the American population owns cryptocurrencies.

A previous report by Finder found that men were twice as likely as women to buy cryptocurrencies. It also established that cryptocurrencies were more prevalent among millennials than Baby Boomer and Gen X generations.

As such, Bruce Willis can be excused for not being enlivened by the prospect of owning cryptocurrencies.