DATE:  07.03.2020, 12:11:06
TITLE: Crypto Bulls Roadshow Coming to Over 15 Indian Cities — With Government Participation
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/crypto-bulls-roadshow-india/

Crypto Bulls Roadshow Coming to Over 15 Indian Cities — With Government Participation

India’s Crypto Bulls Roadshow, a nonprofit initiative to prepare India for the next bull run, is coming up, and government organizations are joining the drive. Currently, 15 cities in India are planned for but more may be added based on demand. There is no fee to participate in the roadshow and there will be online voting for top influencers of the Indian crypto ecosystem.

Also read: Bitcoin Legal in India – Exchanges Resume INR Banking Service After Supreme Court Verdict Allows Cryptocurrency

Preparing India for Next Crypto Bull Run

India’s Crypto Bulls Roadshow is a nonprofit initiative by Kumar Gaurav, CEO of crypto banking platform Cashaa, and Gaurav Dubey, CEO of blockchain investment advisory firm O1ex. Cashaa launched its Indian operations in October last year. O1ex, a Dubai-headquartered company with IT operations based out of Kanpur, India, will be the sponsor of the roadshow.

The event aims “to educate Indian crypto users about real blockchain technology to prepare India for the next bull run,” the roadshow website details, adding that it will “showcase crypto projects, create public awareness, and build a strong Indian crypto community.” The website continues:

Now, it’s time to prepare India for the next bull run and show the world that India is not less than the USA or China.

Government Participating

Cashaa’s Gaurav shared with news.Bitcoin.com that the roadshow is an “initiative to bring back the Indian crypto industry together after the huge damage,” due to the banking restriction imposed by the central bank.

The roadshow document describes: “In the recent supreme court hearing, it became clear that crypto is not illegal in India. It was nearly two years ago that the Reserve Bank of India clamped down on a fast-growing market for cryptocurrencies in the country. That impacted the cash on-ramp for the crypto market in India even though there is no legal ban on their use in the country.” The Supreme Court of India quashed the RBI ban on the crypto industry on Wednesday.

Cashaa’s CEO added:

Many government organizations such as law enforcement (police) and municipal corporations are also joining this drive, to educate citizens about the bitcoin and bring awareness to protect people from scams crypto. After the holiday (12/03/2020) we are expecting huge participation from the other organization and regulators such as Income Tax, SEBI to be part of this program.

India Crypto Bulls Stopping in Over 15 Cities

The current plan is for the roadshow to start on April 3 and run through April 26. “But due to current excitement in India, we might add a few more cities during the roadshow, due to which it may last up to 30th April,” Gaurav revealed to news.Bitcoin.com, elaborating:

Due to the supreme court verdict, the revolution has grown up and bitcoin community managers and evangelists from many different cities have joined it, so far we have added Chennai, Visakhapatnam, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Patna, Kanpur, covering total 7,000 Kms. The start date will be 3rd April.

The 15 cities planned for so far are Delhi, Jaipur, Udaipur, Ahmedabad, Surat, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Visakhapatnam, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Patna, and Kanpur.

Prior to the actual roadshow, there will be meetings with all the exchanges and projects participating in the event. “The chain of meetups, meetings with the local governments, large enterprises, and sessions at the top accelerators with 500 plus startups will create an everlasting ripple effect across the nation,” the roadshow website notes.

The current roadshow timetable is as follows:

New Delhi — April 3 and 4 (2 events in North and South Delhi),

Jaipur — April 5

Udaipur — April 7

Ahmedabad — April 8

Surat — April 9

Mumbai — April 10 and 11

Pune — April 12 and 13

Hyderabad — April 15, and

Bangalore — April 17

How to Get Involved, Voting for Top Indian Crypto Influencers

Crypto projects, influencers, event organizers, traders, and investors from around the world are invited to participate in the roadshow. Attendees will soon be able to select the city and register for the event on the Crypto Bulls Roadshow website (Cryptobulls.in), Gaurav confirmed, noting:

There is no fee unlike any other events in India for participants. The India Crypto Bulls will be a pure crypto event with a focus on the adoption of the public chain.

As part of the event, there will be “Online voting to pick the best exchange, best blockchain project and Indian influencer,” Gaurav further said. “Winner of each category will receive the award at the Gala dinner at the end of the roadshow (venue will be announced by 30th March) and represent India in New York, the USA on 12th May as a speaker at Consensus 2020 in the ‘India Crypto Bulls’ segment on stage.” He added that online voting will start on March 16 and will continue to the end of the roadshow but nominations are open now.

Update (March 16): The team behind the India Crypto Bulls roadshow announced: “Following the directions from the Health Ministry on the COVID-19 outbreak and consensus from the strategic meetup, we’ve decided to postpone the India Crypto Bulls roadshow.” A new date will soon be announced.

What do you think of this India Crypto Bulls Roadshow? Do you want to participate? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.



Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Cashaa, and India Crypto Bulls Roadshow.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.