DATE:  07.03.2020, 13:52:04
TITLE: XRP Liquidity in Philippine Returns with Bullishness, Hits 6 million Plus New High
URL:   https://newslogical.com/xrp-liquidity-in-philippine-returns-with-bullishness-hits-6-million-plus-new-high/

XRP liquidity along the Philippine corridor is back on point, with an excellent return on the upside trend. After few days that were fill with downtrend, XRP digital asset liquidity on Coins.ph now has its head up again, hitting a new high of over 6 million.

However, the liquidity of the cryptocurrency on Bitso exchange (the Mexican corridor) is still struggling to return on the upside trend.

XRP liquidity along the Philippine corridor hit a new high today after presenting a day progress of 54%. Earlier, the XRP liquidity had a record high of 5.5 million, which was attained towards the end of February 2020.

Liquidity Index for https://t.co/raMbsEkdJD XRP/PHP (28-day moving trend)

Day progress: 54%

Today so far: 6,066,650

All Time High: 5,526,762

Data: https://t.co/cF3K6P1fg9 pic.twitter.com/WayiRYRJGQ — Liquidity Index Bot (@LiquidityB) March 7, 2020

XRP continues to get adoption around the globe especially with the wide use of Ripple’s On-Demand Liquidity, referred to as a higher version of xRapid. This product has so far assisted Ripple in three corridors which include, Australia, Mexican and the Philippine corridors with the help of its colossal partner MoneyGram.

Also, MoneyGram is making all necessary efforts to enhance the adoption of Ripple On-Demand Liquidity by creating more corridors and sealing more partnerships. Gradually, XRP has created a huge impact on the three corridors.

MoneyGram Join Forces with Amazon, Google For Better Enhanced Remittance

Ripple’s high-profile partner MoneyGram has announced an alliance with two giants Amazon and Google for a more effective and efficient cross-border remittance service.

MoneyGram hopes to leverage Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud in achieving greater success in executing transactions.

“MoneyGram is integrating with the leader in cloud-based applications, AWS, to bring scale to the company’s transaction processing engine. Additionally, MoneyGram is using Google Cloud as its data and analytics engine to better understand customer behavior and deliver a more personalized experience,” MoneyGram stated.