DATE:  28.03.2019, 09:07:36
TITLE: Bitcoin (BTC) Moonshot? Crypto Trader Says Bull Market Is Here – Plus Ripple and XRP, Tron, Ethereum, Litecoin, Stellar, IOTA
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2019/03/28/bitcoin-btc-moonshot-crypto-trader-says-bull-market-is-here-plus-ripple-and-xrp-tron-ethereum-litecoin-stellar-iota/

‎‎‎ ‏‏‎

From a bold call on the current state of the market to new adoption for XRP and Litecoin, here’s a look at some of the stories breaking in the world of crypto.

Bitcoin

The host of CNBC’s Crypto Trader triggered Bitcoin and crypto enthusiasts around the world with a simple tweet, stating that we are now in a bull market.

We’re in a bull market. — Ran NeuNer (@cryptomanran) March 27, 2019

NeuNer is no stranger to daring declarations and offered no further clarification on his statement, which led to a burst of memes in response.

Why do you lie pic.twitter.com/CfzFWuget4 — CryptoPappy (@Crypto_Pappy) March 27, 2019

https://twitter.com/XRP_Investments/status/1111029605614391296

Well it was nice knowing everybody. pic.twitter.com/XtVUtCOz5B — Cryptofungus (@crypt0fungus) March 27, 2019

Bitcoin has been trading in a narrow 7.8% range through the month of March. Cryptocurrency analyst Murad Mahmudov told MarketWatch the relatively low volatility could be a positive sign for the leading digital asset.

“Volatility is in itself a neutral signal. Historically however, low-volatility periods in BTC have always preceded prolonged bull runs, especially after capitulation moments of high momentum as seen in November and December.”

Ripple and XRP

Ripple has released a speech from the director of Kapronasia, a financial technology research and consulting firm that focuses on the latest trends across Asia.

At Ripple Regionals 2019, Zennon Kapron talks about Asia’s digital payments transformation over the last 14 years and the impact payment companies like Ripple can have on the space.

﻿

Meanwhile, the Singapore-based crypto exchange Bitrue continues to add XRP pairs at a rapid rate. The exchange just added Zilliqa, Golem, IOST and Icon trading pairs, bringing the number of coins paired with XRP to 38.

Ethereum

Ethereum founder Vitalik Buterin just gave an ask-me-anything on Reddit/EthTrader.

Buterin talks about his thoughts on the crypto and blockchain community at large, blockchain anonymity, Ethereum 2.0 and more.

Litecoin

The biggest car dealership in Oklahoma City, has officially started accepting Litecoin, in addition to Bitcoin and Ethereum. Bob Moore Auto Group is using the merchant payment company Aliant Payments to process the transactions.

The Aliant Payments team is proud to announce that we have added Bob Moore Auto Group to our expanding roster of merchants accepting #cryptocurrency payments. https://t.co/QZn7jHgojx @bobmooresubaru1 #PayWithLitecoin — Aliant Payments (@AliantPayment) March 14, 2019

Stellar Lumens

Cryptocurrency research and analytics firm Messari is revealing new information on a little-known bug that hit Stellar Lumens (XLM) back in April of 2017.

A hacker used the vulnerability to create 2.25 billion XLM, which was worth about $10 million at the time. According to the report, it’s highly likely that the XLM was promptly sold on a number of crypto exchanges. Once it discovered the issue, the team at Stellar burned 2.25 billion XLM in order to ensure that the coin’s overall supply of just over 19 billion XLM would remain the same.

IOTA

The team at IOTA has released a new blog post outlining its efforts to bug test the official IOTA beta wallet dubbed Trinity.

Right now, the Trinity mobile and desktop apps are going through a third-party security audit to assess authentication, storage areas, configuration and validation to make sure the wallet is air tight.

Tron

As promised, Tron has handed a new Tesla to a follower who qualified for the giveaway on Twitter by following Tron founder Justin Sun and retweeting his post about the contest.

https://twitter.com/justinsuntron/status/1111078594510352389

Next up, Tron says it will give away at least $20 million worth of Tether (USDT) on Tron’s blockchain. The campaign will reward certain users who hold USDT from April 30th to May 4th.

#Hodl USDT-TRON to earn initial 20% APR in USDT-TRON. 100 day campaign. $20M initial budget no hard cap. Just sayin'. 😎 $TRX $BTT pic.twitter.com/jyo7QcrtbE — Justin Sun (@justinsuntron) March 21, 2019

ADVERTISEMENT