DATE:  16.05.2019, 12:32:58
TITLE: Coincheckup Aggregator Makes It Easier to Analyze the Crypto Market
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/coincheckup-aggregator-makes-it-easier-to-analyze-the-crypto-market/

Coincheckup Aggregator Makes It Easier to Analyze the Crypto Market

The importance of reliable market data grows with rising cryptocurrency prices that inevitably attract more investors to the space. There is a wide choice of market cap aggregators, but some offer more rich functionality than others. Coincheckup is one good example of that.

Also read: Keep Track of Important Crypto Events With Coindar

Website Tracks Coins and Offers Research Features

Coincheckup is a free online platform which tracks over 2,000 cryptocurrencies and digital tokens, providing information about their prices and price changes for different time periods, market capitalization, 24-hour volume, circulating supply, and percentage off all-time-high.

What sets the website apart from others is the additional features it comes with. Coincheckup provides detailed charts, an analysis page, price quotes from different markets, and predictions. It offers users investment and price performance statistics as well.

Fundamental, investment and technical analyses are part of the tool kit traders are provided with so they can make better investment decisions. The platform also maintains pages with pump and dump updates and arbitrage opportunities.

If you have a favorite cryptocurrency, you can go to its dedicated page. There you’ll find additional information that includes a description of the coin and its main purpose, performance stats and historical returns on investments, forecasts and what-if scenarios.

Coincheckup prepares a daily status video update and links to important news headlines. The website lists upcoming events related to the cryptocurrency you are interested in and its highly customizable platform provides various filtering options.

If you need to stay informed about the current prices and valuations of cryptocurrencies, you can also use Bitcoin Markets by Bitcoin.com. It allows you to track your favorite digital coins and compare their indicators. Also, check out our Bitcoin Charts page.

What are your expectations about the short term movement of crypto markets? Share your predictions in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Coincheckup.

Do you need a reliable Bitcoin mobile wallet to send, receive, and store your coins? Download one for free from us and then head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can quickly buy Bitcoin with a credit card.