DATE:  11.02.2020, 23:35:46
TITLE: Users of Bitcoin.com Exchange Can Win Rewards Worth $25,000 in Gocrypto Trading Competition
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/gocrypto-trading-competition/

Users of Bitcoin.com Exchange Can Win Rewards Worth $25,000 in Gocrypto Trading Competition

Gocrypto enables businesses with physical or online stores to accept instant crypto payments from different digital wallets with millions of users. To help introduce the SLP token to even more users, Bitcoin.com Exchange is hosting a trading competition where you can win rewards worth $25,000 in GOC.

Also Read: Gocrypto SLP Token Starts Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange

GOC Trading Competition

Bitcoin.com Exchange is launching a new trading competition to celebrate its partnership with Gocrypto. In total, users can win $25,000 worth of GOC in prizes in this event. The trading competition will start on Wednesday, February 12, and last for seven days.

At the end of the period, the 10 traders with the highest trading volumes for GOC/ETH and/or GOC/BCH pairs will share a pool of $20,000 worth of GOC, given out proportionally according to their accumulated trading volume. Additionally, a pool of $5,000 in GOC will be given out to 10 traders who will be selected at random. For the exact details of the competition check out this page.

Danish Chaudhry, Head of Bitcoin.com Exchange, stated: “We are excited to be hosting this trading competition together with our partner Gocrypto. It’s fantastic to see how fast they’re growing their customer base and how they are making crypto easier to use. With this competition we are celebrating our partnership by rewarding the community. To give everyone a chance to win, we’re including the lucky draw where 10 traders will be chosen to receive $500 GOC.”

Bitcoin.com Exchange was launched in early September 2019 as an easy-to-use platform with world-class security and a powerful trading engine. The platform employs institutional-grade encryption, two-factor authentication (2FA) and IP whitelisting to keep user accounts secure at all times. Available digital assets include ADA, ATOM, BCH, BTC, EOS, ETC, ETH, LTC, ONT, TRX, USDT, WAVES, XLM and XRP.

The Gocrypto Token and Solution

Gocrypto helps businesses accept cryptocurrencies as payment in a way that they are familiar with, without being exposed to the volatility of the crypto markets or to the regulatory and tax uncertainty that currently exists when receiving crypto in many countries. The service is already used in Slovenia, Croatia and Turkey by hotels, shops, restaurants, sports facilities and a range of service providers, including for flight tickets, taxi rides and car rentals. Shoppers just need to scan a purchase QR code with a digital wallet, select the desired cryptocurrency and confirm the transaction.

In September 2019 we reported that the startup behind the Gocrypto token completed a €4 million funding round with participation from Bitcoin.com and Pangea Blockchain Fund to help with its global expansion plans. On 25 November 2019, the GOC token started trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange following a successful migration to the Simple Ledger Protocol token system on the Bitcoin Cash blockchain, with the listing enabling BCH community members to access the SLP token.

What do you think about the Gocrypto trading competition on Bitcoin.com Exchange? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.