DATE:  17.07.2019, 09:30:03
TITLE: PR: Liechtenstein Financial Market Authority Approves Tokenized Real Estate Investment Product
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-liechtenstein-financial-market-authority-approves-tokenized-real-estate-investment-product/

PR: Liechtenstein Financial Market Authority Approves Tokenized Real Estate Investment Product

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

CROWDLITOKEN AG pioneers and starts distribution of a digital bond – European retail investors benefit as well

For the first time in Europe, the Liechtenstein Financial Market Authority (FMA) has approved the offering prospectus for a tokenised real estate investment product. CROWDLITOKEN AG is thus a pioneer for new financial innovations. The Security Token Offering (STO) is now running in European countries. By using blockchain technology, qualified and retail investors are enabled to invest in first-class real estate in Europe. Also the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) has confirmed that no special regulatory approval is needed to market this new class of digital assets in Switzerland.

The company CROWDLITOKEN AG, based in Triesen/Liechtenstein, is launching a security token that combines the advantages of direct and indirect real estate investments. CEO Domenic Kurt comments: “This represents an evolution in the world of financial products. New technologies are enabling us to launch a first-class product that not only offers new investment opportunities, but also remedies inefficiencies, cuts costs and safeguards transparency.”

In concrete terms, the product is a digital representation of a subordinated bond, whereby both the bond as well as the underlying real estate is digitised via blockchain. The token – named the “CRT” – replicates the income streams and the value changes of the real estate properties. Holders of the tokens can select their properties to invest in and thereby tailor their own portfolio. They will benefit from an attractive yield of 5–7% p.a. The ability to invest small amounts in selected European real estate, the easy tradability on digital stock exchanges (in preparation) and the investment flexibility are key innovative features of this unique real estate investment product.

The STO is divided into several phases. The private sale for the first 10 million tokens, which is open to all types of investors, is currently underway with a discount of 25% (equivalent to CHF 0.75 per token, 1 CRT = CHF 1.00). This is followed by the pre-public sale (20%) and public sale (10%). The minimum investment in all these phases is 100 CHF each.

CROWDLITOKEN AG targets to raise 100 million tokens through the STO, the funds will be used to build up the real estate portfolio. CROWDLITOKEN’s clear goal is to bring real estate investments into the digital era by using blockchain technology and thus democratise access to the market.

For more information, please visit crowdlitoken.com.

About CROWDLITOKEN AG

CROWDLITOKEN AG is a Liechtenstein-based start-up that provides investors with access to European core real estate via blockchain technology. This is based on real estate-linked security tokens – termed “CRTs” – i.e. a digital representation of a bond that returns a yield equating to 5–7% p.a. CRTs are fully compliant and combine the advantages of direct and indirect real estate investments.

Contact Email Address

welcome@crowdlitoken.com

Supporting Link

https://crowdlitoken.com/?utm_medium=article&utm_source=pr&%252520utm_campaign=45mio&utm_content=coinprkit

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.