DATE:  13.07.2019, 12:20:47
TITLE: Crypto Firm Wants to Provide Bitcoin Derivative Offerings in US
URL:   https://www.cryptonewsz.com/one-more-crypto-firm-wants-to-provide-bitcoin-derivative-offerings-in-united-states/31460/

Investors in the US will soon be able to opt for Bitcoin derivatives from one more crypto company. trueDigital Holdings LLC, the global institutional platform based in New York for digital finance, has disclosed its plans of offering Bitcoin derivatives to the investors in the United States. The company divulged all the necessary information on the matter through an official press release dated 12th July 2019.

As per the press release, the firm has got to an agreement in principle for acquiring the SEF (Swaps Execution Facility) and DCM (Designated Contract Market) registrations that are held under the name of trueEX LLC. The registrations are subject to the approval of the CFTC (Commodity Futures Trading Commission) of the US and are pending at present.

With these registrations, trueDigital Holdings plans to unveil a digital currency derivatives exchange that is completely regulated. In addition, this planned exchange will also be listing the firm’s Bitcoin derivatives which are physically deliverable. As per the company, these swaps have been ‘self-certified with the CFTC.’ And it doesn’t end there; the company, over the years, intends to list more crypto derivative instruments as well.

The CEO of trueDigital, Thomas Kim, was quoted as saying,

A trueDigital owned and operated regulated exchange is the natural step in our evolution toward achieving our goals. Adding the exchange to our ecosystem delivers a complete end-to-end offering, currently unavailable today, that encompasses tokenization, payments, market data, and settlement for the benefit of our clients and partners.

Apart from offering Bitcoin derivatives, which are physically deliverable to institutional investors, the firm is known for building the 1st OTC reference rate for Ether and Bitcoin. In addition, the company has also created the 1st NYDFS-approved payments platform powered by blockchain for a commercial bank based in New York.

Meanwhile, it must be taken into account that the CFTC had approved LedgerX LLC’s application to operate as the DCM, i.e. Designated Contract Market in June this year. LedgerX is another US-based company offering regulated cryptocurrency derivatives as well as a clearing platform to investors.