DATE:  06.03.2019, 11:37:25
TITLE: Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey buying $10,000 in bitcoin each week as he predicts 'massive' price rise
URL:   https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/bitcoin-price-prediction-rise-jack-dorsey-twitter-btc-value-a8809741.html

Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey has revealed he is spending thousands of dollars a week on bitcoin in anticipation of a major turnaround for the cryptocurrency market.

Mr Dorsey, who is also the founder and CEO of mobile payments company Square, has been a vocal advocate of the cryptocurrency since 2017 but had never before spoken about his own holdings.

Speaking on the Tales from the Crypt podcast, Mr Dorsey explained how he became fascinated by bitcoin two years ago due to its potential for disrupting payments and the broader financial industry.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

"Imagine being born this year, growing up only knowing that the potential for a global currency exists – that is exciting," he told podcast host Marty Bent.

"What that person does with that realisation is amazing... It feels like that just accelerates things even faster. So I think there's a massive acceleration that's going to happen within the next 10 years."

Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Show all 8 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters

During the 30-minute interview, Mr Dorsey revealed that he had maxed out the $10,000 spending limits on his company's application Cash App in recent weeks.

A recent trend on Twitter known as Stack Sat Saturday has seen fellow bitcoin enthusiasts buy $25 worth of the cryptocurrency every Saturday.

"I saw that on Twitter," Mr Dorsey said. "I would have participated but I've already exceeded my limit."

Ultimately, Mr Dorsey said he believed that bitcoin or another cryptocurrency would become the "native currency" of the internet that has the same borderless and global reach as the internet itself.

The Square CEO added that his payments company is actively researching and developing ways to support the bitcoin community and help make it happen.

"I don't wait around for that to happen to me or to us as a company, I want to help make it happen," he said.

"To me it all goes back to the internet. What does the internet want to be? It wants a currency, it's always wanted a currency, it just hasn't had the technology until 10 years ago."

Other major tech companies have also shown an interest in cryptocurrency include Facebook, which is rumoured to be developing its own digital currency to roll out across its messaging app WhatsApp.

A secret team of around 50 Facebook employees are working on a blockchain project that is expected to go live within the next four months.

Fellow messaging apps Telegram and Signal are also planning their own cryptocurrencies, either of which could help propel cryptocurrency into the mainstream through their significant reach.