DATE:  16.04.2020, 20:37:23
TITLE: Bitcoin (BTC) Max Supply of 21 million will Only Happen in the Next Century Cryptocurrency Market Now is the Freest.
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/13569/bitcoin-btc-max-supply-of-21-million-will-only-happen-in-the-next-century-cryptocurrency-market-now-is-the-freest/

Forbes recently spoke of a Zombie market. Investors are beginning to scramble to adjust to new world order.

Mati Greenspan expressed: “What we’re witnessing here is nothing less than the death of capitalism and birth of something new.” He calls this a fascinating reality.”

A new transition to an economic system is happening. Central bankers are manipulating the stock and currency markets. When it comes to trading, the giant publisher has to state that anytime a trade is placed, it becomes important to get out of the trade, in anticipation of a policy announcement.

With the Bitcoin market removed from the Federal Reserve decisions, the Fed controlling investments directly get expected to evolve to be advantageous to the cryptocurrency market.

“Crypto is the freest market we have left because it’s independent of central banks and monetary policy.”

The notable thing that Forbes acknowledges is that the governments from across the world have been long trying to control the Bitcoin; however, by virtue of its nature, it cannot be controlled in a way that the other markets are controlled. Central Banks can’t print more Bitcoin. Central Banks cannot make it scarce.

Sydney Ifergan, the Crypto Expert, tweeted: “The Current Economic Scenario, as Forbes explains, will see Bitcoin Halving, which will likely drive the inflation rate below the USD. True that the demand will be more than supply, and less Bitcoin will be mined in the short-term.”

Recollecting Satoshi Nakamoto, “The price of any commodity tends to gravitate toward the production cost. If the price is below cost, then production slows down. If the price is above cost, profit can be made by generating and selling more.”

Bitcoin (BTC)

A Twitter Account named Ben Hunt speaks about “The Greenspan-Bernanke-Yellen-Powell legacy: a financialized political economy where the preservation of asset prices is our government’s primary objective.”

The government does not want to allow the whole system to collapse because this will lead to the collapse of pension funds, corporate debt, etc.

New theories are about Bitcoin are happening. It goes that “Bitcoin does not waste energy, but it consumes energy that is otherwise wasted.”

So, prospects are beginning to learn how to set up their node, set up servers, create a family channel, lightning wallet, and learn coding to operate machines paying with Bitcoin.

In reality, finance and economy got created by humans. We are at a point in time where humanity is threatened to extinction. If the threat of extinction is done away with, a new order economy will come into place.

Advertisement