DATE:  16.04.2020, 22:02:36
TITLE: COVID-19 Quarantine fun. Earn free Crypto #stayhomeandearncoins
URL:   https://medium.com/@edthisman25/covid-19-quarantine-fun-earn-free-crypto-stayhomeandearncoins-1df448c242bf

Photo by Dmitry Demidko on Unsplash

Boring Quarantine Time? Make the best out of staying at home and saving lives by earning some coins!

As there are a lot of malicious and scammy sites out there, i would like to introduce two serious platforms with different approaches on earning free coins.

These two have been there for a long time, have no ability to “invest”, and are paying fast and reliable from the first day.

Start earning cryptocurrency with Coinpot

Coinpot is a well established microwallet-service for cryptocurrencies. While it offers you a possibility to store your coins online, there are also several ways to earn some coins for claiming its faucets. Simply register at Coinpot first and you are set to go.

Faucets

As mentioned above, Coinpot offers faucets where you will be able to claim coins for free. Claimed coins can be converted to every other cryptocurrency Coinpot supports, like Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, Dogecoin and Dash.

For every Faucet Claim you will also be earning Coinpot tokens which can be converted to crypto or used for playing the lottery or the multiplier game.

Simply register at Coinpot first, open a faucet from the list below and sign in with the email you provided for your Coinpot account. Bitfun and Bonusbitcoin also ask for a password on registration.

Bitcoin Faucets

moonbit.co.in — Claim Bitcoin every 5 minutes bonusbitcoin.co — Claim Bitcoin every 15 minutes bitfun.co — Claim Bitcoin every 3 minutes

Bitcoin Cash Faucet

moonbitcoin.cash — Claim Bitcoin Cash every 5 minutes

Litecoin Faucet

moonliteco.in — Claim Litecoin every 5 minutes

Dogecoin Faucet

moondoge.co.in — Claim Dogecoin every 5 minutes

Dash Faucet

moondash.co.in — Claim Dash every 5 minutes

Mining

You could use your Computer to mine some Coins in Coinpot. While the rate is fairly low, it doesn’t require interaction and could be a nice income boost when doing regularly.

Coinpot Lottery and Multiplier Game

A good use for your Coinpot Tokens is playing the lottery. You can buy a single Ticket for one Token and there is no upper Limit for Tickets you can buy. The more Tickets you have, the higher the chances for winning the jackpot.

I’ve already won the jackpot twice and got 2 runner-up prices too. So it really is worth a try.