DATE:  16.04.2020, 11:10:16
TITLE: Learn about the Bitcoin Gambling Utopia – Brief Review of CryptoGames
URL:   https://www.coinspeaker.com/brief-review-of-cryptogames/

CryptoGames is an online gambling giant that has a strong position in the top list. Being a platform for great fun and entertainment it also provides its client with high quality services. Find out more details to eliminate any hesitations.

The world of gambling is amazing. It is full of excitement, fun and joy, moreover, it presents people with infinite opportunities to win huge rewards within a short period of time. The world of online crypto gambling is even more impressive. With the dawn of the new decade and application of new and advanced technology into the gambling sector, the world of gambling is now more awe-inspiring than ever, with countless people flocking to casinos to have a great time and to reap enormous financial rewards.

However, even in such times of advancement, some entities exist to foil the success of the gambling industry. These entities exist in the form of fraudulent casinos which solely aim to steal money away from unfortunate gamblers. These casinos are neither provably fair nor secure; they provide the worst services imaginable and are run by careless moderators who do not invest sufficient time in taking care of their toxic community of users. To avoid disastrous encounters with such nightmarish casinos, gamblers need to access the best gambling sites available on the internet.

CryptoGames stands at the top of that list of casinos. With its reputation of being provably fair, impenetrable security, fantastic games CryptoGames is certainly one of the best gambling sites available on the internet. Led by an excellent team of professionals, who monitor the community like watchful guardians, the site is gearing up to set a standard in the industry that no gambling casino can beat.

Overview of CryptoGames

CryptoGames was initially founded as DogecoinMachine.net, which was just a slot machine that only supported the cryptocurrency, Dogecoin. Today it is an online gambling giant, with an enormous community of friendly gamblers and run by an extremely close-knit team composed of efficient software engineers and entrepreneurs. With the cooperation of its user base and the excellent management skills of its moderators, the CryptoGames community has established itself as one of the friendliest community of gamblers. Any new gambler desiring to join the community will find it extremely easy to make his/her transition into the community, as the CryptoGames user base is filled with gamblers who intend to make new acquaintances around the globe.

CryptoGames has over 4 Billion registered bets and possesses the highest faucet among all gambling sites, starting at 50 Satoshi up to 6,150 Satoshi up every 3 minutes. The site also has the most lucrative paying referral program, for every bet made by a user referred player, 15 percent of the house edge of the bet is added to the original user’s balance. Furthermore, CryptoGames happens to be the casino with one of the largest communities – denoting its popularity in the gambling industry. With such an impressive set of attributes, it should be noticed that CryptoGames is a haven for any gambler who is looking for some amusement and at the same time wants to earn cryptocurrency.

Be Cautious about Security: Learn why CryptoGames Is Invulnerable

A gambler looking to join a gambling site should be well-informed about its security. Joining an online casino with weak security is the equivalent of flushing one’s currency down the drain. Nowadays hackers are always on the lookout for signs of feeble security which can be easily bypassed. The online gambling sites that do not possess strong security measures are like delicious meals for the ravenous hackers. Therefore, it is crucial that one selects an online casino equipped with high-security measures. The gambling giant, CryptoGames has taken multiple measures to ensure its gamblers do not fall prey to the atrocious attacks made by hackers. The site makes use of two-factor authentication and SSL encryption to protect its users from threats of all sorts. This undermines hackers attempts even in case they got the users’ passwords. Email confirmation is always obligatory for withdrawals, making it even harder for hackers to extract cryptocurrency even if they somehow manage to gain access into the user account. Even in extreme cases where the casino is under direct attack from hackers, user funds will be safe and secure, as they are stored in cold wallets.

Easy Depositing and Withdrawing of Cryptocurrency thanks to the CryptoGames Impressive Options

CryptoGames accepts transactions made with all of the following currency: Bitcoin, Dogecoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Dash, Gas, Monero, Stratis, Bitcoin Cash and Ethereum Classic. With such a vast range of options, it is understandable that CryptoGames has the most flexible deposit options. Furthermore, users can easily switch cryptocurrency to their preferred type via a built-in exchange system, removing the hassle of using a third party system to exchange currencies. Time is highly valued in CryptoGames so it only requires one confirmation for deposits.

Users can also withdraw their cryptocurrency anytime they wish. CryptoGames also has integrated CoinSwitch on its platform so gamblers can deposit reputed coins they own to one of the coins accepted by the casino without any problems.

CryptoGames Stands for Fairness

CryptoGames has a reputation of being totally impartial towards any gamblers. It is also widely recognized for not delaying the rewarding of winnings. The site is also popular for being provably fair, as it uses hashes and seeds which are used by gamblers to verify bets. Randompicker, a third party website, makes use of anti-cheat techniques and is used to generate the completely unbiased results of lottery draws.

CryptoGames is also beloved in the gambling community for having one of the lowest house edge in the online casino industry (only 0.8%) and thus it provides its users with a huge advantage. All of these contribute to Cryptogames’ reputation of being impartial and equal to all its users.

Become a Part of Celebrations and Promotional Events Hold all Year Round

CryptoGames is a gambling site that loves maintaining a festive and joyful environment all throughout the year. The users of CryptoGames take part in multiple promotional events, claiming tons of coins, voucher codes, lottery tickets and many other profitable rewards! Last year the company organized a Halloween, Christmas, Thanksgiving and Anniversary event where users received a lot of free coins via their emails and chat box. A No Bet Speed Limit Dice event is held every Monday, which enables grants users the opportunity to place larger number of bets per second, presenting gamblers with an enormous opportunity to win huge amounts of cryptocurrency.

The promotions also have faucets and rain. Faucets are giveaways of free coins that players with higher levels claim higher faucets levels and more free coins. Those levels are raised by completing specific tasks. On the other hand, rain is the gifting of free coins to active chatters at random intervals. Thus, the community is filled with friendly players who recognize the perks of being nice.

There are also games of dice and roulette which have enormous jackpots. The bets if placed accurately and strategically, can win a gambler the whole pot in one single bet. The Dice jackpot of Bitcoin currently stands at a whopping 3.9 BTC, just waiting to be claimed by a very luck gambler.

Wage War in the Monthly Wagering Contests

Ardent gamblers also have the opportunity to take part in the monthly wagering competition. These contests recognize the top gamblers on the site and reward them with mouth watering gifts and grant them the status of champions on the monthly blog posts. Top players on the leaderboard are given a VIP tag which provides them with high privileges on the site. The wagering contest rewards are the following:

Bitcoin Cash – 5 prizes, up to 18.50 BCH total bonuses

Bitcoin – 10 prizes, up to 3.84 BTC total bonuses + 828 lotto tickets

Dash – 5 prizes, up to 18.50 DASH total bonuses.

Dogecoin – 5 prizes, up to 975,000.00 DOGE total bonuses + 320 lotto tickets

Ethereum Classic – 5 prizes, up to 185.00 ETC total bonuses

Ethereum – 10 prizes, up to 21.80 ETH total bonuses + 828 lotto tickets

NeoGas – 5 prizes, up to 290.00 GAS total bonuses

Litecoin – 7 prizes, up to 42.50 LTC total bonuses + 790 lotto tickets

Stratis – 5 prizes, up to 1,155.00 STRAT total bonuses

Monero – 5 prizes, up to 23.30 XMR total bonuses

Some Final Words

Gambling is one of the greatest blessings of life and online casinos serve as the gateway to a greater feeling of fulfillment and leisure. Therefore, it is extremely important for a gambler to invest his time and energy into the trusted online casino. He has to be aware of conniving online casinos that are not concerned about the gamblers’ wellbeing and only aim to rob his cryptocurrency. CryptoGames is a site that offers a respite from these fraudulent casinos and presents gamblers with an opportunity to escape into a world of unending fun and entertainment. With its reputation of being really impartial, financially secure and its countless promotional events, CryptoGames brushes away all competition to stand as the best online gambling casino in the business.

So without further hesitations, join the CryptoGames community and be a part of something that will not only provide you with entertainment but will also guarantee you an opportunity to gain untold riches.

Author: Natallia Maksimenko Having deep expertise in intercultural communications, Natallia is fond of foreign languages and cultures. She strongly believes that people should continually develop to stay on track, that's why she permanently widens her knowledge in various spheres. Currently, Natallia is fully immersed in crypto, blockchain and financial techs.