DATE:  16.04.2020, 17:30:33
TITLE: Sensorium Galaxy Building the Mecca of Electronic Dance Music in Virtual Reality
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/sensorium-galaxy-building-the-mecca-of-electronic-dance-music-in-virtual-reality/

Sensorium Galaxy Building the Mecca of Electronic Dance Music in Virtual Reality

Sensorium strikes a landmark partnership with the creative force behind Ibiza’s hottest nightlife venues and brands which top the official ranking of World’s Best Clubs. The move demonstrates Sensorium’s commitment to creating state-of-the-art virtual reality clubbing experiences for platform users.

Following Sensorium Corporation’s recent listing on two leading cryptocurrency exchanges, KuCoin and HitBTC, the company has announced a partnership with leading nightlife promoter Yann Pissenem. This move will drive the development of a virtual ‘nightclub’ realm dedicated exclusively to electronic dance music within the Sensorium Galaxy, the global social virtual reality and media platform.

Forbes has already ranked the Sensorium Galaxy in its top ten promising technology projects, while a showing at the 2019 Los Angeles E3 event led to extensive plaudits.

Recently Sensorium Corp also announced the actual launch of the project via a Sensorium virtual spaceship, and its crew, which was propelled into space on a nine month journey. The spaceship will deliver the first ever virtual crew into the Sensorium Galaxy star systems. The first planet they will reach, open to exploration, is the Planet of Music created in partnership with Yann Pissenem.

Today’s partnership announcement underscores Sensorium’s commitment to providing users with the ultimate in virtual reality electronic music and nightlife experiences via 3D social virtual reality. Pissenem is dedicated to bringing his unique skills and expertise to ensure the best virtual reality clubbing experience possible is available on the Sensorium platform. This is further borne out by the listings on the crypto exchanges of its Senso tokens in which users and third parties will use the tokens to buy in-game items and also create new virtual environments.

Brian Kean, Chief Communication Officer Sensorium Corporation, says: “Pissenem is one of the key figures to have shaped the world’s modern clubbing landscape and today over three million people a year are attracted to his projects in Ibiza. He has been instrumental in turning Ibiza into the iconic destination for night clubbers from all over the world. His Ushuaïa Ibiza and Hï Ibiza venues have also become the house residences for some of the most famous DJs on the planet, including David Guetta, Calvin Harris and Martin Garrix. Both venues have been recognized as the World’s Best Club for the last three years by the International Nightlife Association, as well as some of the world’s most recognizable club brands.”

“With Sensorium Galaxy, electronic music fans who can’t always take the trip to Ibiza can now enjoy what this thriving nightclub scene has to offer and their experience will not be limited by physical boundaries thanks to Sensorium’s virtual reality. They can drop right into a pulsating electronic club scene and interact with friends as if in the real world.”

As part of the partnership, Pissenem is bringing on board ten of the world’s top electronic music artists and DJs to collaborate with Sensorium Galaxy.

Yann Pissenem said: “I’ve always enjoyed being deeply involved in new developments for the nightlife industry. As the Ibiza club scene, where much of my energy has been channelled over the years, is now at the global forefront of electronic music and clubbing, having the opportunity to fuse this world with Sensorium Galaxy to create a new social virtual reality is electrifying.

This is a great opportunity to bring the best of the global club scene to millions of users around the world. Social virtual reality is a step-change in the evolution of communication between people and it’s incredible to be actively involved in helping to drive this radical change in how we interact with each other forward”.

In addition to the partnership with Yann Pissenem, Sensorium Corporation has today also revealed that its World of Electronic Music’s visual design was conceptualized by the acclaimed London-based creative and production studio High Scream, run by visionary French creative Romain Pissenem, brother of Yann. Legendary brothers have an extensive track record of working together on high profile projects.

High Scream has vast project experience in creating some of the biggest entertainment and commercial productions of the last decade with the likes of Disney, Nike, Coca-Cola, Burberry, and some of the biggest names in dance music such as David Guetta, Calvin Harris, Swedish House Mafia and Martin Garrix. High Scream is also responsible for creating the iconic stage designs and shows at Hï Ibiza and Ushuaïa Ibiza.

Contact Email Address

ikonnikova@vincipr.com

Supporting Link

https://sensoriumxr.com/

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons