DATE:  04.01.2019, 09:00:57
TITLE: Bitcoin Bulls Ready to Run, Why Crypto is About to Take Off Again
URL:   https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/01/04/bitcoin-bulls-ready-to-run-why-crypto-is-about-to-take-off-again/

Over the past 12 months Bitcoin has continued to fall, dragging the entire crypto market down with it. The daddy of all digital currencies hit a 16 month low in mid-December when it fell below $3,200. Things could be on the verge of a reversal soon though according to analysts.

Turning The Tide On The Bears

A positive start to 2019 and new technical analysis suggests that trends are about to turn for Bitcoin and its brethren. An indicator used to detect trend reversals shows that Bitcoin is in its longest buying streak for six months according to Forbes.

The GTI Vera Convergence Divergence indicator has previously been used to highlight buy signals and it has not been wrong. Bitcoin had a month long rally the last time this indicator showed positive signals. “Should buying pressure persist as it has over the past 13 days, Bitcoin could continue to see a rise in prices,” Bloomberg added.

Bloomberg’s Galaxy Crypto Index, which tracks some of the top crypto assets, is similarly indicating Bitcoin’s longest buy streak since September when its market dominance climbed to 58%. This sentiment has been echoed by senior analysts such as eToro’s Mati Greenspan who said the market is much closer to the bottom than we are to the top, before adding;

“I’m seeing an industry that is growing at a very rapid pace right now where we see companies that are involved in bitcoin and blockchain hiring at a rapid rate. We see new projects coming online. We see all kind of indication that people are getting more and more involved in the market.”

While it is true that large scale mining operations have downsized, crypto exchanges such as Binance and Coinbase have continued to expand and take on new staff and new geographic locations. The looming promise of institutional investor involvement from the likes of Nasdaq and ICE is another signal that the market is not likely to fall any further.

Ethereum has led the rally so far this year with its upcoming Constantinople hard fork being the catalyst. A recovery of over 80% in just three weeks for ETH has bolstered crypto markets which have grown almost 5% since the new year started. Ethereum co-founder Joseph Lubin called the bottom in mid-December when most cryptos were at their lowest levels for 18 months;

I am calling the cryptobottom of 2018. This bottom is marked by an epic amount of fear, uncertainty, and doubt from our friends in the 4th and crypto-5th estates. — Joseph Lubin (@ethereumJoseph) December 21, 2018

The momentum at the moment is slow but recovery is a painful process and will not happen overnight. A steady upswing for crypto markets will be far healthier for the ecosystem than the mass volatility of 2017’s bull run. The snow from the crypto winter could slowly be starting to melt.

Image from Shutterstock