DATE:  04.10.2019, 09:30:34
TITLE: The Exchange for the New Generation — Bitsoda.com Launches Globally
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/the-exchange-for-the-new-generation-bitsoda-com-launches-globally/

The Exchange for the New Generation — Bitsoda.com Launches Globally

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

The Singapore-based exchange, Bitsoda.com, is the newest force in digital asset trading platforms. Invested by Digital Finance Group with Ledger X, Circle and other well-known blockchain projects in the portfolio, Bitsoda.com stands out with adequate resource and enters global market fast with unique competitiveness.

With education background of top universities and leading Internet & blockchain companies such as Alibaba, Temasek and Binance, the core team manifests rich experiences in system security, financial product innovation, and market operation.

A streamlined user experience for desktop now and mobile soon simplifies the process for beginners and the excellent matching engine and complete API are attractive for professionals. Hot-cold wallet separation, multiple encryption mechanisms, and world-class security audits ensure top security.

Unlike traditional cryptocurrency exchanges, Bitsoda.com is the very first who develops social investing model, e-commerce platform operation strategy and innovative project incubation mechanism globally, aiming to power financial inclusion, SME development, as well as blockchain industrial transformation with more practical use cases and massive user adoption.

“By learning from Pinduoduo group-purchase model, Bitsoda could obtain users quickly with low cost. Coupled with other incentives such as Taobao Snap-up model, Bitsoda manages to increase the user engagement. Secret killer product and features will be released soon showing the strong innovation and fast execution of the team.” comments the leading investor James Wo.

Leo, founder of Bitsoda says, “Inspired by crowdfunding and valuation adjustment mechanism, we creatively design a new model of financing which solves the IEO pain points of short-term oriented defeat due to information asymmetry and moral hazard. We wish to solve the phenomenon of bad coins driving out good coins that means projects good at market making rattle those developing technology and products. This plan is called ‘Singularity’ showing our vision to bridge the real world and blockchain universe by powering the real vetted assets”.

The research and investment team collaborates with abundant institution & communities to select high-quality projects. The first group-purchase token is CKB (Nervos) and then 2nd DOT (Polkadot) with advanced technology. To promote the DeFi ecosystem, Bitsoda cooperates with Woodstock Fund to accelerate the DeFi-as-a-Service project Helis. To deliver better staking service, Bitsoda runs nodes for YouChain, Insight Chain,etc to give users interest for locking. To boost real products utilizing blockchain technology, Bitsoda will list AQ Coin firstly worldwide for one-stop asset management and interest sharing and tracing.

Besides all of these, Bitsoda will also start promotion activities in October so that users can earn free ETC and accumulate loyalty points by retweeting news of Bitsoda, registering on website, and inviting friends to trade, etc.

The refreshing choice for new generation, only Bitsoda.

Learn more about Bitsoda:

Website: https://www.bitsoda.com

Twitter: https://twitter.com/bitsoda

Telegram: https://t.me/Bitsoda_EN

ETC Giveaway Campaign: https://support.bitsoda.com/hc/en-us/articles/360036039574

Contact Email Address

media@bitsoda.com

Supporting Link

https://bitsoda.com/

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.