DATE:  05.03.2020, 12:18:57
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Attack on Retro Slot Machine by Microgaming
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-attack-on-retro-slot-machine-by-microgaming/185712

Attack on Retro is one of several slot machines designed for Microgaming by Triple Edge Studios, exclusive games which can only be played on the giant’s platform. They have come up with a futuristic style, but with a nostalgic feel to it, so it borrows from the way they’ve previously imagined things. Several neon graphics, floating hoverboards and more are waiting inside for you. The game can be played on Bitcoincasino.io.

The slot has 5×3 reels with only 10 paylines so it doesn’t look particularly futuristic on that side of it. These also included, as major features, wilds, multipliers, scatter symbols and free spins within. Payouts look very good, attaining a stake of 5,000x plus.

In Attack on Retro the wagers will range from $0.10 to $20. You’ve got this full bet to cover 10 lines for the slot.

The overall jackpot of the game is great, even going as high as 5,000x bet in the round. It’s a very good prize, and we don’t see all that often in Microgaming slots at a point like that. However, you have a slot with high volatility and one where getting Hyperspins mode on is the way to get the maximum RTP of 96.08 per cent. The standard RTP is set at 95.58%.

There are several variants of wild symbols available, displaying 1 to 3 symbols high on the reels. Both main characters will be used as substitutes. If they end up creating their own variations, the stake will be paid up to 100x on every line where that happens.During paying spins, Random Wilds will cause and add as many as 15 extra wilds to the reels, or a maximum of 3for re-spins. At most, the free spins get 9 extra wilds, and on the center reels.

By having scatter symbols in view, you get access to free spins of the slot. These are basic icons with a triangle shape in the back, and the front of the Free Spins logo. You choose how many spins you want, where 10 rounds will have the multiplier at 1x, 5 rounds will get the multiplier at 2x, and 2 iterations of spins multiply win by 5x. In this mode sticky stacked wilds are used in the first and fifth columns.

The right to re-spin reels is also a possibility here, in return for an extra wager, and its official name is Hyperspins. It’s not a new feature, we’ve seen it in many other Microgaming slots, but to have it is still cool. The way it works is found at the bottom of each reel through a special click. Each has a different value attached, which tells you how much you need to invest, just to re-spin the one reel. It might help you get a symbol for a new combination you’re lacking. Using this method actually enables you to reach a higher RTP than the game would otherwise have, and in principle it even gets over 96 percent with it.