DATE:  05.03.2020, 14:53:10
TITLE: This billionaire will give you money to learn about Bitcoin
URL:   https://decrypt.co/21466/this-billionaire-will-give-you-money-to-learn-about-bitcoin

Today, venture capital firm Draper Goren Holm has announced that it will be giving away free Bitcoin during the course of the Los Angeles Blockchain Summit that will take place on October 6–7.

Led by billionaire venture capitalist and Bitcoin backer Tim Draper, alongside founding partners Alon Goren and Josef Holm, the firm promises to gift $100 worth of Bitcoin to each of the summit’s attendees to “incentivize the general public to get educated about the transformative digital currency.”

Additionally, while the general admission tickets cost $299 under normal circumstances, they are currently available for free to customers who sign up and use social trading and multi-asset brokerage platform eToro—the title sponsor of the event.

Bitcoin beginners’ luck

“It is undeniable that Bitcoin is positively transforming the world,” said Draper, Goren and Holm in a joint statement. “The best way to learn about it is to use it, and so we wanted to give thousands of people their first $100 worth. It is so exciting to be responsible for the biggest Bitcoin giveaway in history and be at this historic event as there has never been this many ‘HODLers’ in a single place.”

Per the announcement, the two-day long summit will cover a variety of crypto-related for experts and beginners alike. The latter will also be able to set up and use crypto apps and wallets in the special “beginners’ workshop,” enabling attendees to get familiar with the free Bitcoin they will be given.

Coronavirus cripples crypto conferences

Draper Goren Holm's generous giveaway comes as the global conference business is ravaged by fears over the coronavirus. The virus' spread threatens to kill the Bitcoin conference business, as Decrypt reported recently.

Conference organizers throughout the world are canceling, postponing or planning to livestream events as the impact of COVID-19 spreads beyond China. Many crypto events in Asia, including NiTROn2020 in Seoul, Hong Kong Blockchain Week 2020 and Token2049 were postponed last month.

Unless the coronavirus’s spread has been significantly impeded by early October, even free tickets and Bitcoin giveaways might be not enough to convince people to risk their health.