DATE:  05.03.2020, 13:04:50
TITLE: Threat to Bitcoin? Quantum computer more powerful than Google's
URL:   https://www.crypto-news-flash.com/threat-to-bitcoin-quantum-computer-more-powerful-than-googles-announced/

Technology company Honeywell will launch a new quantum computer with greater computing power than Google’s.

The quantum computer could be a threat to Bitcoin, but it is still in a primitive stage.

Technology company Honeywell announced the launch of its new quantum computer, Raleigh. The development of quantum computers was a controversial topic in the crypto community during 2019, after the document that made public Google’s breakthrough in this field was leaked. In the crypto community several users and personalities such as Vitalik Buterin and Charles Hoskinson discussed the potential threat that these computers represent for the encryption technology behind cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum and others.

Into the “Quantum Advantage”

Honeywell’s new model is part of its model family Falcon, backed by 28 qubit in its backend with a 53 qubit hexagonal network structure and a proven quantum volume of 32. Quantum volume is a metric defined by the Honeywell team that measures the performance of a quantum computer. According to the publication, ‘simply counting the number of qubits’ is insufficient. Honeywell has set out to double this volume every year.

The specifications achieved by Raleigh represent significant progress for the development of quantum computers and are better than those shown by Google’s Bergahorn model. According to Honeywell’s roadmap, Raleigh is only the first model in a family of computers that will improve exponentially over the next decade.

As the Honeywell team states, the development of quantum computers has entered a new phase:

(…) developmental improvements will drive better and better experimental quantum computing platforms to enable serious research, and bridge toward Quantum Advantage.

For now, the development of what Honeywell calls the “Quantum Advantage” is in its early stages. It is plausible that at some point in their development, Honeywell computers pose a real threat to encryption technologies, such as Bitcoin’s SHA-256 mining algorithm.

However, it will take at least a decade before a significant discovery is made that threatens Bitcoin. Besides, as Vitalik Buterin stated, quantum computers are not a death sentence for cryptography. For every algorithm that quantum computers can decrypt, there will be another that is resistant to the quantum computer, Buterin said.

On the other hand, the creator of Cardano, Charles Hoskinson, stated that the development of quantum technology is something positive for humanity at this stage. He added that the progress that quantum computers can bring is positive. He emphasized the significant advances that can be made if this technology is used for the benefit of people.

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don’t miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?