DATE:  05.03.2020, 20:00:28
TITLE: Why Bitcoin IRA Has Processed Over $400 million in Transactions?
URL:   https://bitcoinist.com/demand-surging-for-bitcoin-ira/

Bitcoin Investment Why Bitcoin IRA Has Processed Over $400 million in Transactions?

Bitcoin IRA reports accelerating demand for its crypto-based retirement platform, as it has now surpassed USD $400 million in transactions. This growth reflects the long-term approach investors are increasingly taking toward blockchain assets.

Bitcoin Investors Focused On Holding

The report shows that transaction volume has just reached an all-time high within BitcoinIRA’s internal exchange. Also, transaction amounts are now at their highest point since last July, when the crypto market was experiencing a surge in both activity and value.

Increasing interest from the public no doubt plays a significant role in this growth, yet the company has also diversified its offerings to become more attractive to the public. It has lowered the minimum investment requirement, and since late 2018 has allowed clients to self-direct their portfolios by making crypto swaps within the platform.

There is little doubt that BitcoinIRA expects the rest of 2020 to be a good year. It presently boasts over 50,000, along with a rate-of-return that is considerably higher than what has been seen recently in traditional financial markets.

Demand For Professional Crypto Management is Increasing

BitcoinIRA is far from the only company offering long-term investment solutions for blockchain assets. Many retirement oriented services have now emerged as well as those offering custodial solutions. Within this sector, Bitcoin futures are also seeing record interest.

There should be no surprise that as the crypto space matures, such companies will emerge. However, their long-term place within the blockchain sector is far from assured. Legacy financial service providers are soon to move into this space as well, and their name recognition and client reach far surpass those of these startups. Simply put, BitcoinIRA will soon find itself facing very large and influential competitors.

It is also worth noting that the decentralized nature of blockchain technology makes traditional financial service providers largely unnecessary. Investors need not go through these companies to purchase and hold their crypto assets. In fact, most of these companies do not permit private key ownership, and they charge fees that can easily be avoided by merely keeping crypto funds in personal cold storage.

Despite these shortcomings, the investing public is clearly becoming more interested in what companies like BitcoinIRA has to offer. For many, using such a service offers a way to enter the crypto space without needing deep knowledge of the technology, or incurring the risk of loss or theft. Given such preferences held by most investors, the future for these institutions may be very bright.

Will BitcoinIRA be the go-to option for retirement investment plans in the future? Let us know what you think.

Image via Bitcoinist Media Library