DATE:  15.02.2019, 15:18:46
TITLE: Bitcoin Millionaire Erik Finman is Fixing America With a Blockchain Solution
URL:   https://blockpublisher.com/bitcoin-millionaire-erik-finman-is-fixing-america-with-a-blockchain-solution/

I’m now on to something big. We are launching a blockchain-based solution in 3-4 weeks and I’m super excited about it.

The incredible story of the youngest bitcoin millionaire Erik Finman, continues to live on as he is about to announce a blockchain solution for one of the biggest industry of the U.S. that is governed by strict regulations and controlled by big corporations. Finman claims that the product will prove to be extremely beneficial for everyone, minus the big corporations that are preying on U.S. citizens. In an exclusive interview with BlockPublisher, he said;

I have been part of the crypto community for so long and I thought why not might as well build something.

Finman invested the $1,000 his grandparents gifted him, in bitcoin in 2011, that later made him the youngest bitcoin millionaire. This story didn’t end there because he later founded and sold his educational company ‘Botangle’, for 300 bitcoins. It is fair to say that Eric is a doer and the guy has proved everyone wrong, from his high school teacher who advised him to dropout and work at McDonalds to all of his doubters, and now he is up for something bigger.

At the young age of 19, Finman has already decided to make a difference to contribute to the blockchain revolution and change people lives. He said;

After doing so many things, I feel like I have conquered a lot but as I’m growing older and wiser, I thought about bringing a change and making impact by changing people lives would be great and many big corporations are going to hate us.

Finman has enjoyed his fair share of teen with cars and jets but now he is looking for a better purpose to spend his wealth and is going to fund the blockchain project with his own bitcoin riches. He said;

It is self-funded. I can spend all this money on different stuff like cars and don’t get me wrong I’ve done that but I want to do something that is real and meaningful.

He also talked about how useful the implementation of blockchain is to the industry which he plans to disrupt, the industry that has been played in the hands of politicians and corporations for too long.

I just want to do something real and blockchain is the technology that can be used as a medium to make an impact in this industry, without any politicians.

Finman has a firm belief that his solution will live up to its reputation. The biggest challenge they have faced so far is the development of the platform but he is dreaming big and so is the idea, he said;

Till now the hurdle was just getting the tech built and it will be almost done by the time for launch. Our purpose is big and that is the thing about all great ideas but it is actually real and believable and I believe in doing real things.

Finman’s Political Aspirations

Finman is a very vocal guy and does not shy away from speaking out his mind. He openly talked about his aspiration to join politics one day, to serve and provide relief for people which is the basic responsibility of a politician that many fell short of. Expressing his feelings Finman said;

I’m really passionate about politics and I want to achieve some real things from it. I actually want to do things for the people through politics and I think most of the politicians these days are not working for the benefit of general public.

He also expressed his disappointment where people underestimate their own power and don’t do much on their own by relying so much on politicians, who mostly disappoints, and said.

Our solution will prove to be revolutionary, the notion which is believed by everyone in the U.S that they need politicians to do it for them, will be proven false.

Future of Bitcoin and Blockchain

Finman also shed light and spoke freely about the future of bitcoin. He is of the view that bitcoin will have a couple of more bull runs but won’t go much farther. He also expressed his views about Bitcoin Cash and the Lightning Network. He said;

I think bitcoin is not going do too well in the future. It will have a few more bull runs and not much after. I don’t like lightning Network, I think Lightning Network just turns bitcoin in the Visa or MasterCard. Bitcoin Cash is cool, I like the technology of it but the people behind Bitcoin Cash are not in the right direction and screwed it up and I think Bitcoin Cash has no future at all.

He also talked about the bright future of blockchain technology and that the technology has genuine use cases in almost every vertical we can think of. He also believes that his blockchain solution will prove to be monumental for the industry, that will ultimately put the technology at the forefront. He stated;

I think we will see blockchain everywhere. I actually believe my project will be the first mainstream blockchain based product and it is going to bring blockchain to the forefront and people will see it everywhere. It just have to have the use case and I believe this is going to be one ‘killer’ use case.

Finman is also very critical of the current education system and is of the view that one can learn everything about anything over the internet. He made a bet with his parents that if by 18 years of age he become a millionaire, they won’t ask him to go to college, which he ultimately won. Although a high school dropout, Finman is very vocal and committed on reforming health, educational and financial institutions, that many are afraid to even talk about. His mission statement on his official website states;

We are going to fix America. Starting with Wall Street.

Finance, health and education are the toughest and highly monopolized sectors in the U.S. and this youngest bitcoin millionaire is trying to fix that with his own money. Many believe that he is fighting against the same institutions that enslave our mind and are looking forward to his success.