DATE:  11.12.2019, 12:11:46
TITLE: French boutique launches futures-based bitcoin fund
URL:   https://citywireselector.com/news/french-boutique-launches-futures-based-bitcoin-fund/a1304166

French start-up Napoléon Asset Management has launched its first bitcoin fund, investing in the cryptocurrency via listed futures.

The Paris-based group has unveiled the first of a planned range of cryptocurrency funds, with a view to launch strategies dedicated to other major currencies, including ethereum, litecoin and ripple among others.

The Napoleon Bitcoin fund is a specialised professional fund with daily liquidity under French law, however the group plans to register the fund across Europe for professional investors shortly.

This strategy is one of the first regulated vehicles in the world offering exposure to the performance of bitcoin, according to the boutique.

The fund aims to replicate the performance of bitcoin by investing in futures listed on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in cash settlement. This allows the group to avoid problems of storing and valuing bitcoin. However, there are plans to transform this fund into a strategy that invests directly in Bitcoin, pending regulatory approval.

ADVERTISEMENT

Commenting on the new launch, Stéphane Ifrah, president of Napoléon AM, said: ‘This fund is the culmination of our discussions with the regulator and our partners to offer a real alternative to professional investors.

'We are proud to contribute to the institutionalisation and democratisation of digital assets through a unique regulated fund under the French law.’

Speaking to Citywire Selector earlier this year, Ifrah said the group does not believe in buy-and-hold strategies when it comes to cryptocurrencies but that market timing will be core to their strategies.

He said: ‘You shouldn't be fully invested in this asset all the time so we want to help decide when to be in and when to short this market.

'We make the decision based on a quantitative approach that can be back-tested. When you have an asset with this much volatility you don't want to be driven by emotion in managing it.'