DATE:  21.01.2019, 11:09:00
TITLE: Russia GUNNING for bitcoin: Putin aiming to BRING DOWN BTC with CRYPTORUBLE
URL:   https://www.express.co.uk/finance/city/1075398/Bitcoin-news-price-latest-Russia-Vladimir-Putin-cryptocurrency-BTC-crv

Bitcoin news: Russia is said to be aiming to bring down BTC

Finance and digital experts in Moscow have reportedly been commanded by Vladimir Putin to deliver a so-called CryptoRuble within "two to three years". Anatoly Aksakov, chairman of the financial markets committee at Russia’s state parliament the Duma spoke of the possibility of a digital version of the ruble. Speaking to local news outlet RIA Novosti, he said: “The opinion is that this ruble will not differ in any way from the fiat ruble, except that it will exist on the Blockchain.” He added: “The more widely Blockchain is used in our financial operations – and not just financial but economic ones as well – the more likely it is the Cryptoruble will appear.”

Only last week, it was suggested that Russia’s Central Bank had a long-term plan to buy up millions of bitcoins as an alternative to gold for its national reserve. But now it appears Moscow’s financial superpowers are looking to fast-track their own cryptocurrency into the mainstream Russian economy. The Kremlin’s designs on creating a massive reserve of stockpiled bitcoin was both confirmed and clarified by Mr Putin’s head of crypto – Elina Sidorenko – who admitted the idea was on the table, but it would be "many years into the future" before it became a reality. She rebuffed the rumour that digital teams had already been formed with direct orders from President Putin to snap up as many bitcoins as possible to pump into a mega-hoard in order to work around current or future sanctions imposed by the US and other countries.

The Russian Federation, like any other country in the world, is simply not ready today to somehow combine its traditional financial system with cryptocurrencies Elina Sidorenko

Ms Sidorenko said: “The Russian Federation, like any other country in the world, is simply not ready today to somehow combine its traditional financial system with cryptocurrencies. “And to say that, in Russia, this idea can be implemented in the next at least 30 years is unlikely to be possible.” The main stumbling block is that Russia does not yet have the legal mechanism to allow the circulation of cryptocurrencies. Any implementation of a lawful framework for crypto would very quickly open the floodgates. The question many ministers at the Kremlin will have asked is: “Why set up a legal mechanism and then invite bitcoin, when we could simply take advantage of establishing our own?” Therefore, what is likely, is that the fast-spreading rumours claiming the Central Bank of Russia wanted to harvest and stash away as many bitcoins as possible was, perhaps, a diversion from Moscow’s real intentions. Instead, it would appear that plans to launch a CryptoRuble are running full steam ahead.

Bitcoin news: Russia are said to be poised to launch a CryptoRuble