DATE:  21.01.2019, 14:58:59
TITLE: You might have missed it: Constantinople hardfork new date and Dash anniversary
URL:   https://www.finextra.com/blogposting/16561/you-might-have-missed-it-constantinople-hardfork-new-date-and-dash-anniversary

Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are developing cryptocurrency, the volume of Bitcoin transactions has increased by 63% over the past ten months, and other news of the past days.

Bitcoin fell by 4% over the weekend, the price of cryptocurrency dropped to $ 3,580. Over the past two days, several events occurred at once, which influenced both the value of certain coins and the market as a whole.

DASH Birthday

On January 20, 2014, Dash, an altcoin with anonymous transactions, was released. The coin takes the 15th place in the list of the largest blockchain projects by capitalization. Its average market value at the moment is $70.

Saudi Arabia and the UAE will develop their own cryptocurrency

A new cryptocurrency for cross-border payments is being developed by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Altcoin will be focused on local banks. Special attention will be paid to the protection of consumer rights, as well as the creation of technological standards and the identification of cybersecurity risks.

Chilean authorities will impose a tax on transactions with digital money

The Chilean Tax Administration has included a section on digital money to the income declaration form. Users will have to pay income tax on cryptocurrency transactions. Local media report that Bitcoin is growing in popularity in the country; it is increasingly being used to pay for goods and services, although the legal status of a new type of asset has not been determined.

Bitcoin transactions increased by 63% in ten months

The daily volume of bitcoin transactions is currently at the same level as in October 2017, when the popularity of cryptocurrency rose sharply. Over the past ten months, this figure increased by 63%. According to Satoshi Capital Research, in 2018, the network of the coin processed operations worth over $3.2 trillion, 8% less than in 2017, which is considered extremely successful for the blockchain industry. As noted by cryptoanalysts from Soft-FX, the current situation with BTC transactions is similar to that of 2014-2015, when the bearish phase was coming to an end.

Ethereum Constantinople hardfork to activate on February 27

The developers of Ethereum have chosen a new update date of the cryptocurrency network called Constantinople. Hardfork will take place on block 7,280,000, which will be mined on February 27.