DATE:  26.01.2019, 15:37:51
TITLE: New York Red Bulls VS. Elfsborg: live stream, date, time, preview, match details & watch online
URL:   https://www.sportda.com/new-york-red-bulls-vs-elfsborg-live-stream-date-time-preview-match-details-watch-online/

The Club Friendly between New York Red Bulls vs Elfsborg on January 26, Saturday, i.e. is scheduled to begin at 19:00 (Uk Time), and it will be played at the IMG Soccer Complex.

It’s not secret that New York Red Bulls wants to elevate themselves to the top tier of Club Friendly. The two sides are currently not level on points in the Club Friendly and a win could see one of them move up to tenth if other results go their way. To be amongst the elite, both teams need to play well. Hope we are going to watch some eye-catching shots from both sides.

The Elfsborg coach is confident his side can hurt New York Red Bulls. Although they lost some games, the experience gained will be vital. As they say, anyone can beat anyone on their day and this holds true for New York Red Bulls too.

Match details at a glance,

Club Friendly, New York Red Bulls vs Elfsborg

Date: Saturday, Jan 26

Time: 19:00 (Uk Time)

Location: IMG Soccer Complex

New York Red Bulls: At this point for New York Red Bulls, it’s all about taking care of scores and not worrying too much about what Elfsborg does. If New York Red Bulls can regain its top form, it will be a great battle. The Coach will tell the guys to remain calm, do what they know how to do, and dominate from start to finish. After beating Elfsborg, the confidence is as high as can be.

Elfsborg: This is the team who has proved that do not take your competitors easily. That shows that they can compete with the biggest teams in the Club Friendly, and Elfsborg will be well aware of entering this contest that they aren’t to be taken lightly.

Match Statistics:

LAST FIVE GAMES DATE COMPETITION W New York Red Bulls 0-1 Atlanta United FC Major League Soccer L Atlanta United FC 3-0 New York Red Bulls Major League Soccer W New York Red Bulls 3-0 Columbus Crew SC Major League Soccer L Columbus Crew SC 1-0 New York Red Bulls Major League Soccer W New York Red Bulls 1-0 Orlando City SC Major League Soccer

LAST FIVE GAMES DATE COMPETITION L Malmo FF 2-0 Elfsborg Swedish Allsvenskanliga L Elfsborg 1-2 Brommapojkarna Swedish Allsvenskanliga D Elfsborg 0-0 Dalkurd FF Swedish Allsvenskanliga D Trelleborgs FF 2-2 Elfsborg Swedish Allsvenskanliga W Elfsborg 2-0 GIF Sundsvall Swedish Allsvenskanliga