DATE:  25.03.2020, 07:23:14
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino Adds Troll Haven Slot by Endorphina
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-troll-haven-slot-by-endorphina/231407

Bitcoin Casino has added yet another amazing slot game to its collection of 3000+ online slot games. Troll Haven Slot by Endorhina is breathtaking and an adventurous slot game that will take you on a trip through the Scandinavian Forest. Instead of encountering the usual animals found in a forest, you will be playing with gentle trolls which live there.

You will also come across a gentle giant who will guide you through the almost impossible paths to the hidden treasures. The treasures are well hidden deep in the mountains and it is impossible to discover them on your own. As you proceed, you will also come across forest berries, ancient runes and magical potions which will boost your energy as well as give you clues to the buried treasures.

Troll haven features 5 reels, 3 rows and about 20 different ways to win. The Nordic flora and fauna, the old magic and mystery runes are all inspired by the Scandinavian. The games regular symbols include cauldrons, toadstools, berries and a stone ax. The wild symbol in form of a Troll, substitutes all other symbols except the scatter. The Troll forms the best winning combinations which can earn you up to 3000X your original bet.

The scatter is in the form of a Tree of Life. Three or more scatters will award you with free games. The free games coded 23,16,11,5 one gets come in the multiples of X2,X3,X5,X10. That is, the more the number of games, the higher your chances of winning without staking any of your money. The payout is about 1,200 times your bet, quite discouraging but still something.

The game does not feature so many symbols, but the multipliers increase your winnings tremendously. You can bet as little as $0.01 per spin which earns you 1 active line. $250 is the maximum bet and earns you 25 active lines. Bitcoin Casino does not delay your winnings as your withdrawals are immediate. Perhaps the most attractive feature is that Bitcoin Casino is one of the few online casinos that accepts crypto currency.

Endorphina Gaming has totally outdone itself with this game. It is easy to play even for the first time gamblers while the experienced gamblers will definitely not get bored. Endorphina debuted in 2014 and since then it has released hundreds of online games. They purpose to release top notch games with exclusive in-house graphics, sounds and animations.