DATE:  25.03.2020, 13:00:46
TITLE: Crypto.com Rolls Out Bitcoin Invoicing Service for Users
URL:   https://btcmanager.com/crypto-bitcoin-invoicing-service/

Crypto.com Rolls Out Bitcoin Invoicing Service for Users

Crypto.com, a leading crypto-focused business that allows users to easily buy, sell, earn and pay with bitcoin (BTC) and altcoins at various locations, has announced the launch of its new invoicing service. The firm says the new service makes it possible for merchants using Crypto.com pay, to generate and send invoices to customers interested in paying with their crypto holdings, according to a blog post on March 24, 2020.

Innovative Crypto Invoicing Service

In an attempt to further eliminate the complexities associated with paying with cryptocurrency, Crypto.com has rolled out a new invoicing service for merchants.

Per sources close to the matter, the new invoicing service will enable Crypto.com Pay merchants to easily generate and send invoices to customers who wish to pay with cryptocurrency.

The team says the new crypto invoicing feature is available to merchants at no extra charge and items listed on each invoice are priced in fiat currency to eliminate complexities.

Customers will be able to make payment for the purchased goods or service using any of the supported cryptocurrencies on Crypto.com Pay, including bitcoin (BTC), ether (ETH), XRP, litecoin (LTC), and CRO. And once payment is made, the crypto is converted to fiat.

The team says users do not have to worry about crypto price volatility as the “fiat amount converted is fixed.”

Promoting Crypto Adoption

As a welcome bonus, Cryptto.com says new merchants who sign up for Crypto.com Pay via its new onboarding platform will enjoy a settlement fee waiver for six months.”

Established in 2016 with a mission to give people absolute control over their money, data and identity, Crypto.com claims to have attracted more than one million users to its platform, providing them with an alternative to traditional finance.

Since launching its crypto-enabled MCO Visa debit card in September 2018, the Crypto.com team has not rested on its oars and have moved on to achieve several significant milestones in the firm’s existence.

In October 2019 Crypto.com expanded operations to a massive 49 jurisdictions in the United States, before unveiling its cryptocurrency trading venue in November that year, in an effort to satisfy its customers.

“For Crypto.com, it’s about closing the loop. We’ve got numerous customers who use us for buying and storing crypto and earning interest, but whenever they need to trade in a professional environment, they move to other platforms,” said Kris Marszalek, CEO of Crypto.com at the time.

More recently, BTCManager informed on March 10, 2020, that Crypto.com’s MCO Visa card is now supported on Apple, Google and Samsung Pay.