DATE:  25.03.2020, 21:10:11
TITLE: Golden Cross Gives Little Relief as Bitcoin Risks Fall Below 2020 Bullish Trendline
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/golden-cross-gives-little-relief-as-bitcoin-risks-fall-below-2020-bullish-trendline/72811/

View

Bitcoin is struggling to attract bids regardless of a confirmed "golden cross" sample on the each day chart.

That, coupled with bearish quick length indicators, suggests scope for a convincing break beneath the 2020 rising trendline at present close to $9,700. That may expose the following help at $9,200.

The bearish case would weaken if costs return above as we speak's Asian session excessive of $9,825.

A transfer above Sunday's excessive of $10,051 is required to revive the short-term bullish setup.

Whereas a long-term chart indicator has simply made a bullish name, bitcoin (BTC) is struggling to collect upside traction and appears weak close to the seven-week rising trendline help.

In what was presumably going to reward bitcoin costs a raise, the 50-day shifting common (MA) has crossed above the 200-day MA, confirming a golden crossover, a long-term bull market indicator.

The event has the crypto-market group excited as a result of the identical sample noticed bitcoin rally from $5,050 to $8,300 within the three weeks to Might 16, 2019, following affirmation of the golden cross in late April.

"Do not be late to the celebration," fashionable analysis analyst and blockchain fanatic @crypto_blkbeard tweeted early on Tuesday, whereas drawing consideration to the golden cross on the each day chart.

In the meantime, @themooncarl knowledgeable his 21,000 Twitter followers the golden cross is an indication momentum has shifted in favor of the bulls.

To this point, nevertheless, the buoyant temper surrounding the cross occasion has not translated into keener shopping for. That is evident from bitcoin's failure to maintain beneficial properties above $9,800 throughout the early European buying and selling hours and the following drop to ranges beneath $9,700 – the help of the trendline rising from Jan. three and Jan. 26 lows. READ Bakkt to Launch Crypto ‘Client App’ in First Half of 2020

Costs now threat falling beneath the 2020 uptrend line. At press time, bitcoin is buying and selling near the trendline help at $9,723.

Day by day chart

Bitcoin defended the ascending trendline on Sunday with a doji candle, neutralizing the speedy bearish view put ahead by Saturday's shut beneath $10,000.

Sellers did penetrate the rising help on Monday, however the breakdown was short-lived, as evidenced by the cryptocurrency's UTC shut again above the extent.

The 2-day protection of the important thing help has up to now didn't entice the bulls – as has the golden cross. As an alternative, the cryptocurrency charted a shallow bounce that later fell from the Asian session excessive of $9,825 to $9,700, an indication of weakening of bullish sentiment

Moreover, the five- and 10-day averages have produced a bearish crossover and the MACD histogram is printing deeper bars beneath the zero line. So, a deeper drop towards the help at $9,200 can't be dominated out.

On the upper facet, a transfer above Sunday's doji candle excessive of $10,051 is required to revive the bullish setup, as mentioned Monday.

Hourly chart

Bitcoin's upside break of the descending trendline confirmed throughout the Asian buying and selling hours was short-lived. The failed breakout, coupled with the rising-wedge breakdown, suggests scope for an extension of the continued sell-off from latest highs above $10,400.

Supporting the bearish case, the relative power index has shaped a draw back break of the rising trendline.

The bear case would weaken if costs rise above $9,825 throughout the U.S. buying and selling hours. That may shift threat in favor of a transfer into bullish territory above Sunday's excessive of $10,051. READ Rivals Signature Bank and Prime Trust Team to Offer Instant Payments for Institutions

Disclosure: The creator holds no cryptocurrency on the time of writing