DATE:  25.03.2020, 11:03:09
TITLE: Nigerian Government Warns Against Fake Coronavirus Ransomware Demanding Bitcoin
URL:   https://www.thecoinrepublic.com/2020/03/25/nigerian-government-warns-agains-fake-coronavirus-ransomware-demanding-bitcoin/

The Federal government of Nigeria has warned Nigerians about an Android-based malicious coronavirus ransomware.

Mohammed noted that the development was a confirmation of warning against cybercriminals, that seeks to exploit the emerging of the coronavirus for immoral gains.

Mohammed cautioned over the download of suspicious ransomware app.

The Federal government of Nigeria has warned Nigerians to an Android-based malicious and deceitful coronavirus ransomware application. This app claims that it provides updates on the virus and infections near the user.­­­­­­

Advertisement



The app threats by demanding $100 in Bitcoin

The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, notified yesterday in Abuja that this ransomware blocks access to user’s data and accounts and threatens to delete. It so app threats by demanding $100 in Bitcoin within 48 hours.

The Special Assistant to the President, Segun Adeyemi, stated that the ransomware app prompts users to download an Android App purportedly for tracking coronavirus map and heat map visuals.

This ransomware app was detected on the website: http://www.coronavirusapp.site/

Mohammed issued a warning against cybercriminals exploiting the emerging of the coronavirus for immoral gains.

Mohammed cautioned the general public not to download the ransomware app and look for an authorized website for the latest updates on coronavirus pandemic.

Users installing fraudulent coronavirus trackers

The pandemic has created complicated situations around the world. To seek a better handle on the situation, some people have looked for the coronavirus tracker app, which ultimately made them shock to find that they have installed a malware app instead.

The hackers take advantage of any critical situation that generates needs for the uses to seek information from social media. But it is up to the users to avoid this kind of fake apps and other forms of malware. To know about COVID-19 updates, people should move into trusted sources.

Mobile apps must be uploaded from official app stores. If it is not showing in Google Play Store or Apple’s Play Store, there is a risk of scam. Before downloading, of must be aware of the privacy and policy guidelines f the app to avoid becoming a suspect of any kind of virus.