DATE:  25.03.2020, 09:33:34
TITLE: Privacy Browser Brave Integrates Cryptocurrency Trading Through Binance
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/privacy-browser-brave-cryptocurrency-trading/

Privacy Browser Brave Integrates Cryptocurrency Trading Through Binance

Privacy-oriented Brave has launched cryptocurrency trading within its browser. The company announced on Tuesday that over 12 million active monthly users of the privacy browser can now buy and sell cryptocurrencies, view their crypto balances, and obtain deposit addresses without leaving the browser.

Also read: 2x Bitcoin: Wanna Double Your BTC to the Moon? Forget About It

Brave Launches In-Browser Crypto Trading Through Binance

Users of the privacy-oriented Brave browser now have the ability to trade cryptocurrencies directly within the software interface, thanks to a partnership between its maker, Brave Software, and cryptocurrency exchange Binance. Announcing the partnership on Tuesday, Brave Software detailed:

The new Binance widget in the new tab page of the Brave desktop browser makes Brave the only browser that offers integrated functionality for buying and trading cryptocurrency.

“With the Binance widget, Brave users can access the Binance.com and Binance.us (for US-based users) sites, buy and sell crypto assets, view asset balances, and obtain deposit addresses all without leaving the browser,” the announcement continued. “The Binance widget will give Brave users various options to manage cryptocurrencies, including buying, depositing, trading, and viewing summaries. Users will be able to trade cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin, ethereum, ripple, litecoin, and many others supported by Binance.” Bitcoin cash (BCH) is also included.

An early version of this new feature is available in Brave’s Nightly desktop version now; it will be fully released for desktops in April, and mobile platform availability will be announced at a later date. “The new tab page Binance widget will be enabled by default, but users can turn it off and hide it directly from the new tab page or by managing their settings if they wish,” Brave explained.

About Brave and Basic Attention Tokens

Brave Software, the company behind the privacy browser, was founded by Brendan Eich and Brian Bondy. Eich created Javascript and co-founded Mozilla while Bondy used to work for Khan Academy and Mozilla. Brave is available on desktop as well as for iOS and Android devices.

The number of Brave users has steadily grown over the years. With only 1 million monthly active users at the beginning of 2018, the privacy browser is now used by more than 12 million monthly active users and over 500,000 verified publishers, the company said on Tuesday. “The Brave browser combines privacy with a blockchain-based digital advertising platform, and offers 3-6x faster browsing than other browsers,” Brave claims.

The browser allows its users to “opt into privacy-respecting ads that reward them with Basic Attention Tokens they can redeem or use to tip or contribute to publishers and other content creators.”

The Privacy Browser With Tor Integration

An increasing number of people are looking for the best privacy browser or the most secure browser to protect their activities online. Brave is one of several browsers that aim to deliver privacy when browsing the internet.

For added privacy, the Onion Routing network Tor has been integrated into the Brave browser. “Private Tabs with Tor help protect Brave users from ISPs (Internet Service Providers), guest Wi-Fi providers, and visited sites that may be watching their Internet connection or even tracking and collecting IP addresses, a device’s Internet identifier,” Brave detailed. As for the newly added cryptocurrency trading functionality, Brave explained in its Tuesday announcement:

The Binance widget is built into Brave and is not a loaded iframe (remotely embedded document), which preserves the user’s privacy. API calls will only be made into Binance if the user authenticates via OAuth and interacts with the widget.

What do you think of the privacy browser Brave adding cryptocurrency trading? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Purchase Bitcoin without visiting a cryptocurrency exchange. Buy BTC and BCH here.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.