DATE:  15.04.2019, 04:21:00
TITLE: Shanese, Patricia Koullias: Sisters arrested in dark web drug bust
URL:   https://www.news.com.au/national/courts-law/sisters-charged-over-dark-web-drug-bust/news-story/08bb7d5ef1e6744bf902de12a8e68ae2

Sisters Shanese, 24, and Patricia Koullias, 20, are in prison charged over massive drug operation allegedly masterminded by hacker prodigy Cody Ward

Until police swooped, the young sisters were enjoying life, partying and posting glamorous pictures of themselves on Instagram.

Among their posts, Shanese Koullias, 24, and her sister Patricia, 20, exchanged messages with their computer whiz-kid friend Cody Ward, 25, who was also busy posting about his lavish lifestyle of luxury cars, Bitcoin and expensive restaurants.

Dressed up for a night at the Hordern Pavilion in tight, revealing outfits, the sisters attracted comments about their “hot-ass” looks.

Ward posted with a winking emoji, “I’d love to see post-party selfies though … looks like the start of a messy night.”

But the sisters’ carefree lives were up-ended in February when police arrested them. The cops claimed to have connected them to a drug empire allegedly operated by Ward — a Maserati-driving young dark web prodigy — from his NSW South Coast beach house.

In an old photo, posted eight years ago by their mother on Facebook, the two sisters are dressed up and their mother’s friend posts: “What beautiful, beautiful girls … you must be very proud. GORGEOUS.”

The girl’s mum responds: “Thank you … they are beautiful girls and yes I am very proud of them!!”

The reality now is the Shoalhaven High School graduates are being held on remand in women’s prisons on multiple charges.

Both young women and Ward have been refused bail awaiting further hearings into the allegations against them.

Police allege Ward ran a multimillion-dollar dark web drug syndicate selling cocaine, MDMA, LSD and Xanax online with deliveries via Australia Post

Strike Force Royden, set up in April 2018, allegedly identified a $17 million technologically sophisticated drug distribution network operating from the NSW South Coast.

During raids on five properties, police allegedly seized 2.5kg of white powders believed to be cocaine, amphetamine, diazepam and other substances.

They also seized 200g of MDMA, 100,000 LSD tabs, cannabis, Xanax disguised as confectionary, $80,000 cash, a vacuum sealer, label maker, money counters, phones and a laptop.

Detectives also took in a Lexus, a Mercedes-Benz, and a Ford Falcon.

A Maserati was found burnt out in bushland near Tomerong west of Callala Beach, after reports of a blaze was made to the local Rural Fire Service.

Video footage released by NSW Police — after raiding Ward’s Callala Beach house, and two other premises at Callala Bay and Quakers Hill — shows Ward and the sisters following their arrest.

Each of the accused can be seen arriving at Nowra police station in the back of a paddy wagon and is escorted inside.

Ward is handcuffed and wearing shorts and a long-sleeved shirt.

Shanese Koullias and her younger sister Patricia are both uncuffed, with Shanese holding up a hand to shield her face from the video camera.

Police charged Shanese with four counts of supplying drugs, knowingly dealing with proceeds of crime, and knowingly participating in criminal group to assist crime.

Patricia was charged with four counts of supplying drugs, and participating in a criminal group to contribute criminal activity.

Initially, police charged Ward with four counts of supplying drugs, knowingly directing activities of a criminal group, and knowingly dealing with the proceeds of crime.

Last week, police added an additional six charges, including four counts of importing a commercial quantity of border-controlled drugs, and two counts of importing a marketable quantity of border-controlled drugs.

Police allege Ward was operating as a hacker using the dark web alias NSWGreat, and was involved in Bitcoin and other trading.

Police allege the Koullias sisters were involved in the preparation, packaging, and distribution of prohibited drugs, which had been ordered on the dark web.

Ward’s proudly showed his “toys”, including a Mercedes-Benz and a black Maserati, a 2006 Gransport 4.2L v8, which he raced, on his Facebook and Instagram accounts, the South Coast Register reported.

The state crime commander, Acting Assistant Commissioner Stuart Smith, said Strike Force Royden’s investigation had allegedly uncovered one of the largest online drug supply networks in the country.

“We’re putting would-be drug pushers on notice,” he said.

“NSW Police Force has some of the most sophisticated technology and resources at our disposal.

“You can no longer try to hide the peddling of poisons on the dark web.

“There’s nowhere to run and nowhere to hide, even online.

“Whether purchased on the street or online, illicit drugs are capable of causing serious injury or death.”

Refused bail at Nowra Local Court in February, Shanese, Patricia and Ward will remain in custody until their next appearance on May 31.

candace.sutton@news.com.au