DATE:  09.04.2019, 10:35:50
TITLE: How to Buy Gift Cards for Nike, Adidas and Other Top Brands With Bitcoin Cash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/how-to-buy-gift-cards-for-nike-adidas-and-other-top-brands-with-bitcoin-cash/

How to Buy Gift Cards for Nike, Adidas and Other Top Brands With Bitcoin Cash

Using gift cards is a practical way to spend your bitcoin cash in stores that don’t accept cryptocurrency directly. Here’s how to buy gift cards with BCH for top brands such as Nike, Adidas and American Eagle.

Also Read: How to Save Over 15% Shopping on Amazon With Bitcoin Cash

Buy Premium Gift Cards on the Bitcoin.com Store

The Bitcoin.com Store’s gift cards section offers hundreds of premium branded cards to retailers, online services and restaurants, all for purchase with bitcoin cash. The selection covers everything from fashion, with options such as Nike, Adidas and American Eagle, to digital gaming, with support for the likes of the Nintendo eshop, the Sony Playstation store and Xbox Live Gold. It even offers donation gift cards if you want to use your BCH to gift someone the power to donate to a charity they support.

Using the service couldn’t be easier: just browse the cards or search for the brand you want, select the amount you want to pay – usually one card can be topped up with between $5 and $500 – and choose to buy for yourself or send to a friend. Checkout requires just a name and an email address and payment is done via Bitpay.

The gift cards are provided via a partnership with Egifter, a company aiming to transform gift giving. Some of the gift cards are valid for use only in specific regions, mainly the United States, so notice where the cards you buy work if you are sending them as a gift to someone internationally.

Have you tried buying gift cards with bitcoin cash? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Satoshi’s Pulse, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.