DATE:  09.04.2019, 07:52:07
TITLE: The Bitcoin Ambassador
URL:   https://calvinayre.com/2019/04/09/bitcoin/the-bitcoin-ambassador/

BITCOIN

Calvin Ayre would like to present to the world his unique credentials as the planet’s only official Bitcoin ambassador.

Calvin Ayre is a celebrated entrepreneur who has played a pivotal role in the development of several industries, including a successful stint in the online gambling industry that ultimately landed his picture on the cover of the 2006 Forbes’ ‘billionaires’ issue.

In August 2017, the government of Antigua and Barbuda took note of Ayre’s rising stature in the emerging blockchain/cryptocurrency sector and appointed him a Special Economic Envoy with responsibility for advising on economic cooperation and commerce between Antigua and Barbuda and other sovereign states where blockchain technology is being utilized.

There’s no doubt that Ayre, a noted history buff, was honored to receive this designation. Throughout history, ambassadors have provided valuable assistance in lessening the likelihood of minor disagreements between nations developing into more serious fights. Then again, some ambassadors have done their office no great honor by taking undue advantage of a perk known as diplomatic immunity.

Diplomatic immunity, which effectively puts a government’s appointed representatives above the law in the countries in which they serve, has resulted in all sorts of flagrant law-breaking over the years, ranging from the banal ($18m in unpaid parking tickets run up by United Nations diplomats in New York City) to the infinitely more serious (a US embassy staffer shooting two Pakistani citizens dead on a street in Islamabad).

So, to assuage the concerns of the global community, here are the things that the Bitcoin Ambassadayre will and won’t do. Starting with the latter, Ayre won’t drive blind drunk through your city streets (apart from motorcycles, jet-skis or stock cars on closed tracks, Ayre hasn’t driven himself anywhere for years). Nor will he light up a fat cigar midway through an international flight while guffawing loudly and humming the main title theme to ‘Homeland.’

On the flip side, Ayre will continue to travel the world while singing the praises of Bitcoin Satoshi Vision (BSV), the only true Bitcoin due to its unique capacity for the massive on-chain scaling that will realize the promise in Satoshi Nakamoto’s 2008 Bitcoin white paper.

Ayre will also continue to bend the ears of decision makers around the globe regarding BSV’s future as the next evolutionary step in the long history of cash and commodities. And when the global merchant class finally falls in line, Ayre will be happy to play host to his governmental guests and pay the bar tab with BSV. Now, there’s a diplomat for you…

Ayre’s latest CoinGeek Conference is scheduled to kick off in Toronto on May 29-30. The future of money awaits in Toronto, and it’s easy to register and use the world’s new money to register—and you’ll even get a discount if you use Bitcoin SV via Coingate.

Comments