DATE:  03.07.2019, 09:46:11
TITLE: Bitcoin products set to be BANNED in the UK as regulators crack down on crypto
URL:   https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/bitcoin-products-set-banned-uk-17375017

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - money Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

New plans have been announced that could mean the end of anyone trying to make money selling people products based on Bitcoin's price.

That's after City regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) proposed new rules in an effort to stop honest Brits being ripped off by those taking advantage of how few people understand this new breed of "cryptocurrencies".

FCA executive director Christopher Woolard said: "Most consumers cannot reliably value derivatives based on unregulated cryptoassets.

"Prices are extremely volatile and as we have seen globally, financial crime in cryptoasset markets can lead to sudden and unexpected losses.

"It is therefore clear to us that these derivatives and exchange traded notes are unsuitable investments for retail consumers."

As an asset - albeit a digital one - the FCA can't stop people buying Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies directly.

However, it absolutely CAN ban people selling products based on their prices that are regulated by firms acting in, or from, the UK.

As such it's proposing stopping the sale of derivatives and exchange traded notes (ETNs) referencing certain types of cryptoassets.

Broadly speaking - that's any product sold to the public that lets you make or lose money based on a cryptocurrency's current or future price.

"We will act when we see poor products being sold to retail consumers. These are complex contracts built on top of complex assets," Woolard said.

(Image: LightRocket via Getty Images)

The FCA thinks these products are "ill-suited to retail consumers" as it's not possible to reliably work out their value or the risks they involve.

More specifically there were problems thanks to the:

inherent nature of the underlying assets, which have no reliable basis for valuation

the prevalence of market abuse and financial crime in the secondary market for cryptoassets (eg cyber theft)

extreme volatility in cryptoasset price movements, and

inadequate understanding by retail consumers of cryptoassets and the lack of a clear investment need for investment products referencing them

Put together the FCA said that meant consumers could "suffer harm from sudden and unexpected losses if they invest in these products".

"We estimate the potential benefit to retail consumers from banning these products to be in a range from £75 million to £234.3 million a year," the FCA said.

Shaun Port, Nutmeg chief investment officer, said: “These assets have generated a lot of media hype and have even been the focus of social media platforms looking to branch out into investments and payments, but the reality is, it is very difficult for anyone to reliably assess the risks associated with them.

"There are issues with volatility, transparency, custody, fraud, liquidity and diversification. Not to mention that crypto-derivatives remain unregulated by the FCA.

“These products are ill-suited for retail consumers, and it is right that the regulator is considering steps to prevent the novelty of these products causing potential long-term harm to retail consumers.”