DATE:  13.01.2020, 20:00:24
TITLE: Bitcoin SV Pumps on Craig Wright Receiving Missing Tulip Trust Key Rumour
URL:   https://www.newsbtc.com/2020/01/13/bitcoin-sv-pumps-tulip-trust/

The price of the cryptocurrency created by two controversial hard forks of Bitcoin is increasing dramatically today. Bitcoin SV gained by around 5.4 percent over the last 24 hours on a day when most other leading crypto assets traded sideways.

The most likely cause for the sudden increase in market capitalisation is the spreading rumour that Craig Wright has now received the last part of the Tulip Trust documents, which might prove him part of Bitcoin’s creation. Wright will reportedly submit the documents to the court hearing the case between himself and estate of his late business partner, David Kleiman, next week.

Bitcoin Origins Clarifying? Can Wright Prove Himself Part of the Crypto’s Creation?

According to posts on Twitter today, Craig Wright has now received a document he has been promising to submit as part of court hearings brought by the estate of his late business partner David Kleiman. Wright stands accused of stealing the Bitcoin he mined with Kleiman at the very beginning of the cryptocurrency’s story.

The Australian computer scientist said previously that he would receive the last document relating to a mysterious group known as the Tulip Trust in January. Following this, he will reportedly be able to settle with David’s brother, Ira. Wright warns that Ira will crash the price of Bitcoin, since he will sell around half a million BTC as soon as he can.

On Friday, Wright was given until February 3 to produce the document. Failure to do so would result in sanctions against him. Judge Beth Bloom expressed her doubts as to Wright’s ability to deliver the document to the court. In the court order, dated January 10, she stated:

“Given the Defendant’s many inconsistencies and misstatements, the Court questions whether it is remotely plausible that the mysterious ‘bonded courier’ is going to arrive, yet alone that he will arrive in January 2020 as the Defendant now contends.”

Today, various Twitter accounts have posted what appears to be evidence of Wright claiming to have received the document from the “bonded courier”:

"Keys have arrived." "Real?" "Yep" That's what we needed to get this thing to $200. 👍 pic.twitter.com/dUHbS7smKx — Arthur van Pelt – Dragon Industries (@MyLegacyKit) January 13, 2020

"bonded couriers aren't shadowy… Next week we file." Keys have arrived. — Eli Afram (@justicemate) January 13, 2020

In the above screenshots, apparently taken from a Slack channel of which Craig Wright is a member, the Australian computer scientist and Bitcoin SV proponent claims that submission next week is “certain”. Presumably with reference to the Tulip Trust document, he added:

“Next week we file. Already arrived.”

Although many investors appear to be buying into Bitcoin SV on the apparent news, not everyone is convinced that Wright will submit documents to the court next week. Arthur van Pelt notes the Bitcoin SV proponent and online gambling magnate Calvin Ayre upping his efforts to shill his favourite cryptocurrency on the apparent revelation. The Dragon Industries co-founder dismisses the rumours as a “fabricated scam” intended to pump the price of Bitcoin SV, creating a better market for those behind it to ditch their own holdings:

And don't get me wrong here. This is nothing less than a fabricated scam, a pump 'n' dump orchestrated by the people on the helm. Don't trade on this, ever. Stay out.https://t.co/x5nKBjsHFL — Arthur van Pelt – Dragon Industries (@MyLegacyKit) January 13, 2020

If the crucial documents have indeed been delivered, Wright will present them to the court next week. This would provide evidence linking him to the creation of Bitcoin. Given Wright’s tendencies to lead the court on, today’s rumours might also be part of more elaborate delaying tactics, or like alluded to above, an effort to pump the market. Fortunately, we won’t have to wait long to find out if the rumours are true or not.

Related Reading: This Chart Shows the Crypto Market Is On Verge of Bull Phase

Featured Image from Shutterstock.