DATE:  05.04.2020, 18:35:12
TITLE: Charles Hoskinson Suggests a Way to Identify the Anonymous Creator of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto
URL:   https://heraldsheets.com/2020/04/05/charles-hoskinson-discover-anonymous-creator-bitcoin-satoshi-nakamoto/









The co-founder of Cardano (ADA) and Ethereum (ETH) Charles Hoskinson has suggested a way to identify the anonymous personality that created Bitcoin (BTC), Satoshi Nakamoto.

He made this suggestion in an interview with a crypto news outlet U.Today a couple of days ago. In his statement, he suggests “stylometry”.

He said there is a possibility that Satoshi Nakamoto is an academic and had his education in either America or Britain.

Details of Charles Hoskinson’s Assertion about the identity of Satoshi Nakamoto

Charles Hoskinson said that the needed key to identify Satoshi Nakamoto could be in the Bitcoin code. He said since the code was written by Satoshi Nakamoto, “you can apply stylometric techniques to that code and apply it to all the open-source projects that have ever been written and there’s a very high probability you’re going to find a match between that code and other code.”

He said further that the creator of Bitcoin (BTC) could be in his fifties or sixties and had his education in the late eighties or early nineties.

Charles Hoskinson also said the Bitcoin code is likely written by an academic, due to the unprofessional way it was written. He said an engineer could have done a better job, so he suggested that Satoshi could be academic.

He said since the code was written in an uncommon programming language which “was used mostly in computer science pedagogy, especially in England and in the Eastern United States during that time period,” that alone “gives you a lot of indication of where that person was trained.”

He added that “Bitcoin has operated just fine since 2012. It’s been eight years now and we haven’t had any issues. So why do we need to bring the founder back?”

He then sent an indirect message to Craig Wright, who parades himself as the creator of Bitcoin:

He said, “It’s almost like you’re the Pope and you speak for God, right? You can then use that pulpit to influence people to use your product, like Bitcoin SV for example, or, at the very least, make yourself seem cooler or more interesting.”

Moments ago, Charles Hoskinson provided a link for anyone interested in having knowledge about using Code Stylometry to identify anonymous programmers.

“Anyone interested in further reading on my comments about using Code Stylometry to de-anonymize programmers, here is a good paper. It is commonly done in defense circles to track malware authors,” Charles Hoskinson shared.







