DATE:  05.04.2020, 23:13:51
TITLE: Does Warren Buffett's course correct Bitcoin like airline stocks?
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/does-warren-buffetts-course-correct-bitcoin-like-airline-stocks-beincrypto/

[ad_1]



Warren Buffett has proven that he can change his mind. The billionaire has reportedly dumped nearly $ 400 million worth of airline stocks in the past few days after pledging to keep up despite the turmoil. Even Buffett, who denounced Bitcoin BUY NOW and all cryptocurrencies have their limits. Now that Buffett has proven that he can keep his other investments nimble, is there still hope for him when it comes to Bitcoin?

According to SEC filingsThe Buffett conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway, has unloaded approximately $ 390 million in airline stocks and cut its stakes in the past few days delta and southwest by approximately 20% and 5%, respectively. (Business Insider) Apparently Buffett had seen enough after the sector had become zero for the economy due to travel restrictions, canceled flights, cash burns, and calls for help to Uncle Sam for federal corona-fed grants.

Buffett's 180 degree rotation

What a difference a month makes. It wasn't until March when Buffett said he wasn't going to save the airlines. tell Yahoo Finance at the time,

"I will not sell airline shares."

Maybe Southwest frightened Buffett when he canceled more than 1,000 daily flights. Or maybe he heard about a passenger who had the entire plane on a flight from Washington DC to Boston because the demand for the corona virus subsided. That had to send a strong message to the mostly technically averse investor.

To be fair, Buffett didn't liquidate his entire airline portfolio, so he could still be in pain. As a result, we were able to see even more sales.

My story of visiting my mother during the pandemic made the news!https://t.co/BuNekpVW0E – Sheryl Pardo (@spardova) April 1, 2020

Bitcoin to the rescue?

With all the capital freed up, Buffett could look for a parking space. And if he could reverse the price of stocks, there may still be hope that Warren Buffett – who once referred to Bitcoin as a rat poison in the square – could find a place in his cryptocurrency portfolio.

While airlines like Delta and Southwest are facing their solvency, Bitcoin has been in tears lately. BTC isn't available for the year, but it's knocking on the $ 7,000 door again, and the typical bullish halving event is only a few weeks away. In addition, it is only Q2 that is historically strong for the flagship cryptocurrency.

After a recent meeting with Justin Sun, Buffett told CNBC that his opinion had not changed and said in February:

"Cryptocurrencies are basically of no value and produce nothing."

One of the sticking points for Buffett on cryptocurrencies is that they can't send you a dividend check. With airlines now knocking on the door of the government over a bailout, investors are unlikely to expect payouts or share buybacks in the near future.

(embed) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d6yqrwOZVjY (/ embed)

To be honest, we may never see the day Mr. Buffett changes his mind about Bitcoin or any other digital currency. At 89, Buffett is quite committed and invests in companies whose business models he understands. Maybe Greg Abel or Ajit Jain, who are supposed to be possible successor according to Buffett in Berkshire, a different view is taken. (CNBC) Hope is eternal.

Meanwhile, do you need a trading guide? Coronavirus outbreak?

Dailynewsx is here to help! Join our … Telegram trading community to the Market updates, exclusive Trading signals and a FREE trade rate!

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View, and Twitter.