DATE:  05.04.2020, 10:40:34
TITLE: Ethereum (ETH) Facilitated For Non-Custodial Swaps in a Well-Known Wallet
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/13179/ethereum-eth-facilitated-for-non-custodial-swaps-in-a-well-known-wallet/

Ethereum (ETH) as a software system is not controlled by a single entity. The rally for Ethereum does not seem to be over. It appears to be gearing for yet another liftoff. The positive sign seems to continue. A major bullish line is forming, and it just seems like a bullish wave is on the dice.

The TronWallet has facilitated a groundbreaking release of version 3.2. TronWallet v3.2 is now facilitating a seamless Ethereum (ETH) cross-chain swap experience in the new release along with multiple accounts, USD-pegged remittances, and more.

It is well known that TRONWallet is a decentralized cross-chain instrument meant for non-custodial swaps, and it used to be employing only Tron (TRX) and Bitcoin (BTC) blockchains. In the current release, Ethereum is also facilitated as a tool kit.

At last, the user experience is seamless, and the network fee is adjustable for both ETH and BTC blockchains. Did this in any way work the buy signal for ETH?

Vitalik.eth tweeted: “Enterprise applications of all kinds are increasingly exploring the Ethereum mainnet. There’s great value in a public, neutral place to store messages and application logic. But this also highlights why our work on privacy and scaling is so important.” The perception is that Ethereum will eat Wall Street’s Settlement layer.

Sydney Ifergan, the crypto expert, tweeted: “Despite whatever bottlenecks people are talking about for Ethereum (ETH), it is already a new type of security in the market. This will be beast in no time.”

Ethereum (ETH) Gitcoin Funding Round

Vitalik tweeted: “Three years ago, I was close to the only one writing updates and explainers. Now, half the research team is doing it. Yet another clear sign of just how far the ethereum ecosystem has come in the last few years.”

An open concern from a blockchain enthusiast is on No one in the blockchain is putting the technology to use to help with all of the government’s logistical and organizational problems due to the coronavirus pandemic. This he opines is a great opportunity for Ethereum or any blockchain project to break into the main steam.

Whether the new coronavirus will lead to the coming of a digital dollar is something we are yet to witness.

It has been stated that in the recent Gitcoin funding round, the Ethereum community will be pitching in to support the efforts related to coronavirus, Ethereum 2.0, and cryptocurrency education.

Gitcoin used to be helping to bridge the gap between developers and capital, and now they are widening the bridge to include the health crisis.

Advertisement