DATE:  05.04.2020, 15:49:38
TITLE: Institutional funds were poured into Bitcoin ahead of the $ 7,000 rally, according to data
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/institutional-funds-were-poured-into-bitcoin-ahead-of-the-7000-rally-according-to-data/

[ad_1]



Bitcoin saw a remarkable price hike at the end of last week, allowing it to overcome the resistance it faced at $ 7,000 and peaked at $ 7,300. This is the point at which it lost its momentum and was remarkably rejected.

Although this move turned out to be volatile, the data seem to be highlighting an interesting trend, with the sharp increase in CME futures volume and large transaction volume both suggesting the possibility that this was an institutional move.

This is further supported by the fact that open interest in Bitmex actually declined on April 2, showing that traders were not the suspects behind this volatile rally.

Bitcoin's volatile rally to $ 7,300 leads to consolidation

In the aftermath of Bitcoin After a brief surge in these recent highs, the cryptocurrency was again in a sideways trade within the upper $ 6,000 region.

This appears to be the same trading range that crypto was caught in late March, and resistance in the $ 7,000 region has so far proven insurmountable for the cryptocurrency.

An interesting factor is that this movement was accompanied by a sudden increase in the large transaction volume.

Data from IntoTheBlock, a data and analytics platform, shows that the volume of large Bitcoin transactions – defined as those worth more than $ 100,000 – has risen from its $ 3.1 billion low on March 29 A high of $ 5.65 billion on April 2 with this data has risen. This shows that large buyers supported the move.

The CME futures volume indicates that institutional buyers have supported this move

This significant buying activity could be due to large retail and institutional buyers, further supported by the massive increase in CME futures volume, which is reported to increase from $ 88 million on April 1 to $ 347 million on April 2. April has risen Aslant.

Since CME futures have high trading requirements and are tailored to institutions and accredited investors, the increase observed here suggests that this rally was caused by a sudden influx of capital from non-retail investors.

Open interest in the BitMEX cryptocurrency platform declined during this period, which also shows that retailers weren't the volatile rally.

In the medium term, this could indicate that large companies are currently accumulating Bitcoin in the crypto market, possibly because they expect it to see another upward trend over the medium or long term.

Bitcoin, currently number 1 in terms of market capitalization, has risen 0.7% in the past 24 hours. BTC has a market cap of $ 124.39 billion with a 24-hour volume of $ 30.8 billion. Chart from CryptoCompare

Posted in: Bitcoin, Analysis, Price Watch