DATE:  05.04.2020, 11:06:53
TITLE: Vitalik Buterin Hopes Bluesky Will Improve Twitter
URL:   https://www.thecoinrepublic.com/2020/04/05/vitalik-buterin-hopes-bluesky-will-improve-twitter/

Vitalik Buterin is impressed by twitter in tackling fake news spread. All though twitter’s architecture is centralised, he hopes BlueSky will add to the improvements of it.

Jack Dorsey, announced his initiative in making twitter a decentralised platform.

Dorsey also stated his plan of doing a project called Bluesky, its motive being to fund the independent development of the system.

In December 2019, the CEO of Twitter, Jack Dorsey, announced his initiative in making twitter a decentralised platform. Dorsey believed that the disadvantages of a centralised platform were that it led to abuse and misleading information, secondly the algorithms couldn’t be chosen to build alternatives and the existing social media incentives always led the attention to be on the content that has controversy.

Advertisement



Decentralistaion has its benefits in offering solutions for the management and the priority of the network stability. Therefore, it is obvious why people have shifted to decentralized platforms such as Bitcoin and Ethereum.

Dorsey also stated his plan of doing a project called Bluesky, its motive being to fund the independent development of the system. But it was not merely the good news to people who were already working on decentralized networks.

He believed that decentralisation would allow the access and contribution to a much wider group of public conversation, and its focus will be on building open recommendation algorithms that would nowhere promote unhealthy conversations and will force them to be more innovative than in the past.

Vitalik Appreciates Bluesky

Vitalik Buterin, co-founder of Ethereum and Bitcoin magazine states that he is impressed by twitter since a time period of two months. He believes that it has been providing accurate information and that though in less time. Addition to that he says he observed that the fake news was usually quote tweeted to refute it.

Yes I know it's architecturally centralized (hopefully @bluesky can improve on this?) but the sources of information and the inputs to the mechanism that determine what you see are decentralized, and that decentralization is proving to be an advantage. — vitalik.eth (@VitalikButerin) April 4, 2020

All though twitter’s architecture is centralised, he hopes BlueSky will add to the improvements of it. Bluesky that was initiated for the transformation of businesses and to prove to be an alternative to the centralised platforms, that will work by taking inspiration form an email and help twitter in the allowance for anyone to build their own social media networks.

The main idea behind the initiation of BlueSky is to rearchitect the twitter so as to improve its function in a decentralised way. He takes side of the twitter adding that the sources of information and inputs given to the mechanism for determining what we see are decentralised and this decentralisation in the processes are helping it become advantageous.