DATE:  02.12.2019, 18:00:13
TITLE: 2019 Cyber Monday Crypto Deals And Bitcoin-Back Savings
URL:   https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/12/02/2019-cyber-monday-crypto-deals-and-bitcoin-back-savings/

Now that Thanksgiving meals are finally digested and the dust finally settled on Black Friday doorbusters, it’s time to sit back from the comfort of your couch, desk, or mobile phone, and take advantage of online digital deals for crypto products on a national day of savings called Cyber Monday.

Like Black Friday before it, the day offers many ways to save on cryptocurrency-related product, and even on cryptocurrencies themselves. Check out the best deals offered in the crypto industry on Cyber Monday.

Best Crypto Cyber Monday Deals For Bitcoin and Altcoin Investors

Black Friday is now over, but that doesn’t mean the deals are. In fact, many of the same offers valid for Black Friday are still live today on Cyber Monday, with many additional discounts added for more ways to save.

Related Reading | Should Bitcoin Investors Be Thankful It’s Thanksgiving?

ProtonVPN is available for 50% off, giving crypto investors access to a cheap, reliable virtual private network for logging onto trading platforms inconspicuously for top-notch personal opsec.

Further bolstering a crypto investor’s ability to protect themselves and their funds, are offers from Ledger, Trezor, and KeepKey. Ledger is offering a 30% sitewide discount on its Nano S and Nano X hardware wallets and the rest of its product lineup through the end of today. Trezor is also offering 30% off using the promo code TRZR30 until December 3. KeepKey offers the cheapest Cyber Monday deal of all and is running a $5 crypto hardware wallet special.

TradingView has extended its Black Friday sale into Cyber Monday, offering up to 60% off its Pro, Pro+ and Premium subscriptions. For those considering trying their hand at technical analysis and charting, it’s the best deal of the year.

Browser Add-Ons For Sats Back Savings

If you’re doing other, non-crypto-related shopping online but still have Bitcoin on your mind, consider installing Lolli, a web browser that offers Bitcoin back on online purchases at major online retailers like Macy’s, Best Buy, Walmart, and many more, who are all running their own Cyber Monday specials. If you’re shopping at any of Lolli’s retail partners anyway, you might as well pick up some extra Bitcoin for yourself while you’re at it.

Related Reading | Bitcoin Price May Be Ready To Rally According To Social Media Metric

Amazon is the online retailer that put Cyber Monday on the map. Lucky for you, there’s also a way to earn Bitcoin back by shopping Cyber Monday deals on Amazon, by using the Purse.io browser extension. Much like Lolli, the extension will simply activate and allow you to earn crypto back for purchases at the world’s largest online retailer during their shopping event of the season.

Let us know if you’ve found any Cyber Monday specials for crypto products in the comments below!