DATE:  13.09.2019, 19:00:47
TITLE: Poll: More Than Half of Bitcoin Investors Expect Triangle Breakout
URL:   https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/09/13/poll-more-than-half-of-bitcoin-investors-expect-triangle-breakout/

Bitcoin price has for months now been locked inside what many crypto analysts believe to be a triangle pattern. However, they are torn as to the type of triangle the pattern is – descending or symmetrical.

Crypto investors themselves who are also watching the pattern are also torn, not by the shape of the formation, but on which direction it may resolve. However, the largest portion of crypto investors and traders are expecting the chart pattern to break to the upside, which could potentially cause Bitcoin price to retest its former all-time high at $20,000.

Poll: Nearly 60% of Crypto Traders Expect Bitcoin Formation to Break Up

There’s much confusion across the crypto market currently. Bitcoin price has been said to be starting its next bull run, yet the first-ever crypto asset is currently consolidating in a tight trading range, suggesting there is indecision in the market, and that bears may be once again taking control.

Related Reading | Bitcoin Price Forming Descending Triangle, Market Showing Consumption of Demand

The result is a triangle forming on higher timeframes on Bitcoin price charts. Analysts are torn as to if the formation is a descending triangle or symmetrical triangle – with some even saying that it’s a bull flag and not a triangle at all.

Just as conflicted are crypto investors and traders themselves, according to a recent poll shared by crypto analyst Josh Rager. The poll reveals that as much as 59% of crypto investors and traders are expecting the triangle pattern to resolve to the upside, while the remaining 41% expect the formation to breakdown, and lower prices to be reached.

The ultimate question : Bitcoin breaks out of this large compressed pattern (triangle) — Josh Rager 📈 (@Josh_Rager) September 13, 2019

According to Bulkowksi, known for being the definitive expert when it comes to identifying chart patterns, symmetrical triangles are continuation patterns that typically resolve to the upside. This would suggest that if Bitcoin price is indeed in a symmetrical triangle, it’ll do as crypto traders are expecting and break upwards.

However, Bitcoin could also be in a descending triangle pattern. Most believe that descending triangles are bearish structures due to the 2018 bear market being a massive descending triangle that broke down, taking Bitcoin price to its final bottom in December, but Bulkowski’s data shows that even descending triangles break upward as much as 53% of the time – which gives a higher probability the current trading range breaking to the upside, as the poll respondents believe.

Related Reading | Crypto Analyst: Bitcoin Price Forming Symmetrical Triangle, 60% Chance of Continuation

Should Bitcoin price break down, the structure would likely be confirmed as a descending triangle much like what was seen during the 2018 bear market, and it would make the contrarian group of crypto traders profitable, given how much of the market is currently expecting bullish continuation from Bitcoin.

Featured image from Shutterstock