DATE:  17.04.2020, 07:04:18
TITLE: Crypto Billionaire Says One Altcoin Reminds Him of Bitcoin and Ethereum’s Early Days
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/04/17/crypto-billionaire-says-one-altcoin-reminds-him-of-bitcoin-and-ethereums-early-days/

Tyler Winklevoss, co-founder of New York-based crypto exchange Gemini, is calling out Chainlink (LINK) and its potential to break out as one of the next big altcoins.

The billionaire crypto entrepreneur and early Bitcoin investor says the smart contract project is built with quality technology and supported by a following that’s reminiscent of the early BTC and Ethereum evangelists.

“I really appreciate the passion of the LINK Marines. Their fervor and dedication reminds me of the early Bitcoin and Ethereum communities. Unlike many other crypto armies, they are dedicated to a project that has real promise and technical merit.”

ADVERTISEMENT

Gemini recently announced the addition of trading and custody services for LINK, as well as Dai and Orchid (OXT). Winklevoss says he doesn’t own any Chainlink but thinks it’s a “fantastic project that demonstrates one of the many great promises of crypto.”

Chainlink’s main goal is to give enterprises a simple and seamless way to take data and place it on the blockchain. The token is designed to reward people who run nodes and power the network.

LINK outperformed Bitcoin in 2019 and was one of the most successful crypto assets of the year, rising from around $0.29 last January to about $1.80 by the end of December, according to CoinMarketCap.

After reaching an all-time high of $4.95 on March 4th, it crashed in mid-March like the rest of the crypto industry. It has bounced back from its March low of $1.64 and is currently trading at $3.47 at the time of writing.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/Liu zishan