DATE:  17.04.2020, 10:52:44
TITLE: How To Shop Online in Ghana and pay with Bitcoin
URL:   https://mfidie.com/how-to-shop-online-in-ghana-and-pay-with-bitcoin/

How To Shop Online in Ghana and pay with Bitcoin

Listen to this Article

Bitcoin is the biggest and first cryptocurrency to be launched in the world. Over the past ten years, bitcoin has become widely accepted as a reliable payment method all over the world.

So, just like Paypal and the rest, Bitcoin can also be used for online shopping and other online payments.

Whereas there are many myths about bitcoin and its link with fraudulent activities or scam, bitcoin is a uniquely fast and reliable way of making payments both locally and international.

In this article, we shall focus on how to use bitcoin to shop in Ghana or any other part of the world.

First of all, certain shops accept bitcoin as payment methods. These are the only online shops from which you can purchase an item using bitcoin.

How To Know If An E-commerce Store Accepts Bitcoin Payment

As stated in the previous paragraph, the first thing you need to confirm before shopping online with bitcoin is for you to identify sites that accept bitcoin as a payment method.

For you to confirm if a site accepts bitcoin as a payment method, you need to follow the steps below.

Visit the e-commerce site. Go to payment methods under the FAQs column or help column Check through the list to see if you’ll find cryptocurrencies. If you see cryptocurrencies, check to see if you’ll find bitcoin or its logo there.

If you do not see anything about bitcoin in the list of payment methods, then know that the site doesn’t accept bitcoin as a payment method.

How To Fund Your Your Bitcoin Account Before Making Purchases

Before anyone can use bitcoin for a transaction, the person must already have a safe bitcoin online wallet.

Just like the banking system, you need an account where you can deposit money before spending on any goods or service.

In the case of bitcoin, there are very few wallets that are reliable but I will recommend blockchain.

So, to create your blockchain wallet, visit blockchain.com and follow the steps below:

Click on ‘wallet’ button b. select signup’ Fill the form with your email address, preferred password and name, accept terms and conditions and click on continue Click on ‘get started’ to see your account dashboard. Open your email account to confirm your email address.

When you finally complete your account opening process, you need to send some bitcoin to your blockchain wallet.

You can check out this article:

How To Make Your Purchase With Bitcoin

Visit the e-commerce site you wish to buy from. Login to your account or create a new account if you’re a new user. Select the items you wish to purchase and add them to your cart. Click on your cart and go to checkout. Fill in your shipping address and other vital information. Select ‘Bitcoin’ as your payment method. Copy the bitcoin address provided.

Sending Your Payment

Open a new tab and do the following:

Go to your blockchain account Click on send Select bitcoin from the list of currencies Paste the receiver’s wallet address in the ‘To’ column. Enter the amount you want to send in dollars Write the reasons for the transfer in the ‘description’ box. Select your preferred fee and click on continue. You may be asked to enter a code for verification.

When you’re done with sending your bitcoin, go back to the previous tab and confirm that you’ve sent it. You may be required to paste the transaction ID.

Conclusion

As indicated in the beginning paragraph of this article, there are some e-commerce sites and businesses that accept bitcoin payments. Some of them include Microsoft, Pornhub, AT&T, Norwegian Air, Shopify, Overstock, Expedia and Newegg among others.

Always remember to have more than enough bitcoin balance before making payments since bitcoin is very volatile and can hence reduce or increase within the next moment. Also, make sure that you buy from trusted websites with bitcoin since bitcoin sent is irreversible.

Again, do not leave your blockchain login details on any site since this could be used to hack your account and steal all your bitcoin. If you have any reservations or additional comments, kindly let us know in the comment box beneath the post.