DATE:  17.04.2020, 22:40:23
TITLE: SEC Restarts Clock on Proposed ‘Bitcoin and T-Payments’ ETF
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/sec-restarts-clock-on-proposed-bitcoin-and-t-payments-etf/89036/

The U.S. Securities and Alternate Fee (SEC) is once more soliciting feedback on a proposed exchange-traded fund (ETF) primarily based round bitcoin and Treasury bonds.

In keeping with a public submitting printed Tuesday, funding administration agency Wilshire Phoenix and NYSE Arca filed an modification to their ETF proposal earlier this month to handle issuance and redemption for the securities and the itemizing/buying and selling of the fund’s shares.

Coinbase Custody will act because the custodian for the bitcoin held by the belief, in accordance with the submitting. Tuesday’s discover says Coinbase will present attestations confirming the quantity of bitcoin it holds inside 5 enterprise days of the belief’s month-to-month rebalancing, including a element not current within the unique submitting.

The amended rule change proposal additionally notes that CME and Intercontinental Alternate (ICE) present bitcoin futures merchandise within the U.S., slightly than CME and Cboe. The latter firm wound down its futures product earlier this yr.

Later on, the submitting seemingly addresses the SEC’s issues with potential market manipulation within the cryptocurrency house.

“The Sponsor notes that, in reference to the Fee’s evaluation of whether or not a market is inherently immune to manipulation, the Fee has in sure circumstances centered not on the market as an entire however as an alternative on the numerous subset of the market that has a significant impression on the actual ETP [exchange-traded product],” the submitting says, including:

“As an illustration, orders approving itemizing functions of ETPs that put money into gold bullion centered on the spot and futures market, though gold is traded on a lot of completely different market segments. Focusing on the spot market is acceptable as a result of the spot market is the market to which the actual ETP would look to find out its [net asset value].”

The modification filed on Oct. 4 “replaces … and supersedes” the unique submitting “in its entirety,” Tuesday’s discover stated.

The SEC first kicked off the remark interval for Wilshire Phoenix’s proposal in June, earlier than asserting in late September that it was evaluating the proposal.

In keeping with the submitting, members of the general public should submit feedback inside 21 days of the discover’s publication within the Federal Register. The SEC has 45 days after the submitting’s publication within the Register to make an preliminary determination, however can lengthen that timeframe if it chooses to take action.

Tuesday’s submitting follows the SEC’s determination to reject a bitcoin ETF proposal filed by Bitwise Asset Administration, additionally working with NYSE Arca. The regulator cited issues about market manipulation and a scarcity of surveillance-sharing agreements as a difficulty in its rejection.

SEC brand picture by way of CoinDesk archives