DATE:  17.04.2020, 16:56:20
TITLE: US Law Enforcement Traces Bitcoin Transfers to Nab ‘Largest’ Child Porn Site
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/us-law-enforcement-traces-bitcoin-transfers-to-nab-largest-child-porn-site/88848/

A U.S. federal grand jury indicted a South Korean citizen for working the biggest little one porn website by quantity, the place guests spent tens of millions of {dollars} price of bitcoin to pay for the unlawful content material.

Jong Woo Son, 23, the proprietor of the Welcome to Video (WTV) website has additionally been charged and convicted in South Korea and is at present in custody serving his sentence there, the Division of Justice stated.

The DOJ stated 337 website customers, together with regulation enforcement officers, from 22 U.S. states and 11 international locations around the globe have been arrested.

The operation resulted in searches of residences and companies of 92 people within the U.S. The investigation has additionally led to the rescue of a minimum of 23 minor victims residing within the U.S., Spain and the U.Ok., who have been actively being abused by the customers of the positioning.

WTV supplied these movies on the market utilizing bitcoin, reasonably than merely sharing the movies and pictures over a chat discussion board. In accordance to the indictment, the positioning claimed greater than 1,000,000 downloads of kid exploitation movies by its customers.

Every person obtained a singular bitcoin tackle to create an account on the web site. An evaluation of the server revealed that the web site had a couple of million bitcoin addresses, signifying that the web site had capability for a minimum of a million customers.

A forfeiture grievance was additionally unsealed right now. Law enforcement was ready to hint funds of bitcoin to the Darknet website by following the circulation of funds on the blockchain. Individually, Chainalysis stated it was their Chainalysis Reactor software program used to analyze the blockchain transactions.

The digital forex accounts recognized within the grievance have been allegedly utilized by 24 people in 5 international locations to fund the web site and promote the exploitation of kids. The forfeiture grievance seeks to get well these funds and, finally by the restoration course of, return the illicit funds to victims of the crime.

Chainalysis stated that with the positioning’s listed bitcoin tackle, IRS Legal Investigation and Homeland Safety Investigations have been ready to use Chainalysis Reactor to analyze transaction exercise and construct a graph displaying the circulation of funds out and in of the WTV tackle.

Know Your Buyer (KYC) processes enabled lots of the exchanges concerned to present investigators copies of identification, addresses, and different related transactions related to these accounts. In circumstances the place that was inadequate, account data mixed with open supply intelligence and normal investigative methods have been sufficient to establish customers.

Chainalysis stated in a press release:

“We would like to allow a complete financial system powered by cryptocurrency, however websites like WTV destroy the general public’s religion within the know-how and decelerate adoption within the reputable financial system. Combating towards them is a step in the fitting path.”

Assistant Legal professional Common of the Justice Division’s Legal Division, Brian Benczkowski, stated:

“Darknet websites that revenue from the sexual exploitation of kids are among the many most vile and reprehensible types of felony habits. This Administration won't enable little one predators to use lawless on-line areas as a protect.”

Talking at a press convention on Wednesday, U.S. Legal professional for the District of Columbia Jessie Ok. Liu stated:

“Our message for many who produce, distribute and obtain little one pornography is obvious: it's possible you'll attempt to cover behind know-how, however we'll discover you, and we'll arrest and prosecute you.”

On March 5, 2018, brokers from the U.Ok., and Korean Nationwide Police in South Korea arrested Son and seized the server that he used to function a Darknet market that completely marketed little one sexual exploitation movies out there for obtain by members of the positioning.

The operation resulted within the seizure of roughly eight terabytes of kid sexual exploitation movies, which is without doubt one of the largest seizures of its variety. The web site was additionally among the many first of its variety to monetize little one exploitation movies utilizing bitcoin.

The pictures contained over 250,00Zero distinctive movies, and 45 % of the movies at present analyzed comprise new photographs that haven't been beforehand identified to exist.

The Indicted

The DOJ stated that two WTV customers within the Washington, D.C. space dedicated suicide after being served search warrants. In that metropolitan space, 5 search warrants have been executed and eight individuals have been arrested for conspiring with the administrator of the positioning, in addition to for being its customers.

Among the many 36 People named within the indictment, a minimum of three have been federal regulation enforcement staff who had been arrested earlier on this long-term investigation.

Former U.S. Navy Petty Officer Don Edward Pannell, II, 32, of Harvey, Louisiana, was arrested in April and plead responsible in August. Pannell was assigned to Fleet Readiness Heart Mid-Atlantic Detachment, New Orleans, and was additionally recognized by way of his bitcoin use.

HSI laptop forensic examiners discovered greater than 1,00Zero photographs and 125 movies depicting the sexual victimization of kids on Pannell’s home-built tower laptop. The pictures and movies depicted pre-pubescent women, together with toddlers, engaged in sexual acts with adults.

Pannell faces 5 to 20 years in jail, up to a life time period of supervised launch, and a $250,000.00 high quality, in addition to registering as a intercourse offender. U.S. District Decide Greg G. Guidry will sentence him on Dec. 17.

Former HSI agent Richard Nikolai Gratkowski, 40 on the time, was sentenced in Might to 70 months in federal jail on little one pornography fees. The investigation confirmed that Gratkowski, in San Antonio, obtained a whole lot of movies of pre-pubescent youngsters engaged in a wide range of sexual acts and had additionally purchased entry with cryptocurrency.

U.S. Border Patrol Agent Paul Casey Whipple was arrested, additionally, in San Antonio in December, 2017, for producing and sharing little one pornography over the positioning. FBI brokers decided the movies have been produced in Hondo, TX, going again to 2015.

Picture by way of DOJ

———

UPDATE (16th October 18:00 UTC): Up to date to embody protection from a press convention on Wednesday and extra data on these indicted, together with former regulation enforcement officers.