DATE:  04.05.2019, 08:52:59
TITLE: If You Had Bought Bitcoin Group (ETR:ADE) Stock A Year Ago, You'd Be Sitting On A 29% Loss, Today
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/had-bought-bitcoin-group-etr-085259846.html

Want to participate in a short research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and you could win a $250 gift card!

It is doubtless a positive to see that the Bitcoin Group SE (ETR:ADE) share price has gained some 84% in the last three months. But that is minimal compensation for the share price under-performance over the last year. The cold reality is that the stock has dropped 29% in one year, under-performing the market.

View our latest analysis for Bitcoin Group

To paraphrase Benjamin Graham: Over the short term the market is a voting machine, but over the long term it's a weighing machine. One imperfect but simple way to consider how the market perception of a company has shifted is to compare the change in the earnings per share (EPS) with the share price movement.

Bitcoin Group stole the show with its EPS rocketing, in the last year. The rate of growth may not be sustainable, but it is still really positive. So we are surprised the share price is down. Some different data might shed some more light on the situation.

Bitcoin Group's revenue is actually up 680% over the last year. Since the fundamental metrics don't readily explain the share price drop, there might be an opportunity if the market has overreacted.

You can see how revenue and earnings have changed over time in the image below, (click on the chart to see cashflow).

XTRA:ADE Income Statement, May 4th 2019 More

Take a more thorough look at Bitcoin Group's financial health with this free report on its balance sheet.

A Different Perspective

Bitcoin Group shareholders are down 29% for the year, even worse than the market loss of 4.1%. That's disappointing, but it's worth keeping in mind that the market-wide selling wouldn't have helped. It's great to see a nice little 84% rebound in the last three months. Let's just hope this isn't the widely-feared 'dead cat bounce' (which would indicate further declines to come). Is Bitcoin Group cheap compared to other companies? These 3 valuation measures might help you decide.

Of course Bitcoin Group may not be the best stock to buy. So you may wish to see this free collection of growth stocks.

Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on DE exchanges.

We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.



If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.



