DATE:  26.06.2019, 11:11:00
TITLE: Bitcoin price trebles as mysterious surge continues into fourth month
URL:   https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/bitcoin-price-surge-latest-cryptocurrency-why-analysis-a8975051.html

The price of bitcoin has risen by more than $3,000 (£2,400) over the last week, as the cryptocurrency continues its remarkable recovery.

Bitcoin is currently trading at around $12,600 – more than triple its value at the end of March – and appears on track to pass its previous record price of $20,000, which it hit in late 2017.

Cryptocurrency market analysts have struggled to explain the dramatic turnaround in fortunes, though some have pointed to the recent announcement of Facebook’s libra cryptocurrency.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

Facebook’s interest in the space has validated and drawn attention to cryptocurrency more generally, while simultaneously boosting bitcoin by virtue of its connection to the controversial technology giant.

“It’s possible that concerns over Facebook’s track record with privacy, ironically, may be leading people to be materially more interested in bitcoin – a cryptocurrency outside of any company’s control – than in Facebook’s in-house cryptocurrency,” stated a recent report from cryptocurrency firm SFOX.

Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Show all 8 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters

Another factor that may have contributed to bitcoin’s recent run includes a renewed focus on regulating cryptocurrencies within countries that have helped foster the nascent industry.

“Positive legislation is being passed in countries that include Malta, Dubai and France,” Ana Bencic, the founder and CEO of crypto firm NextHash, told The Independent.

“This legislation demonstrates the level of awareness and appreciation of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies by the public and with legal recognition comes a growing number of traditional investors who purchase bitcoin as a way to diversify their assets and reduce risk.”

The price of bitcoin remains notoriously difficult to predict, and some may be concerned it could be building into another bubble.

Bitcoin crashed dramatically following its 2017 peak, losing more than half of its value in less than two months.

As its price currently continues to rise, interest in bitcoin is likely to also keep rising.

Previous studies have proved a correlation between interest and price, suggesting increased interest will continue to drive price. However, this could change as quickly as it did in 2017.