DATE:  17.02.2019, 18:45:58
TITLE: Startups-Focused Law Firm Now Accepts Bitcoin Cash Payments
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/startups-focused-law-firm-now-accepts-bitcoin-payments/

Startups-Focused Law Firm Now Accepts Bitcoin Cash Payments

Cryptocurrency ventures that don’t wish to convert their holdings to fiat can now pay for legal services with bitcoin cash (BCH) or bitcoin core (BTC) with Atrium. The corporate law firm, which has helped over 300 startups raise more than $500 million in venture capital, now accepts direct cryptocurrency payments via Bitpay.

Also Read: Wikipedia Now Accepts Bitcoin Cash Donations via Bitpay

Atrium Fintech and Blockchain Now Accepts Bitcoin

Atrium, a legal services provider focused on high-growth startups, recently announced the acceptance of BCH and BTC payments for its Fintech and Blockchain practice (AFB) via the popular cryptocurrency payment processor Bitpay. Accepting payment in crypto will make engagement easier for its clients headquartered outside of the U.S. or with substantial cryptocurrency holdings.

“Atrium’s blockchain practice is growing rapidly so it makes sense they would allow their clients to pay in bitcoin,” said Sonny Singh, the Chief Commercial Officer of Bitpay. “This is another great example of global crypto clients requesting to pay their bills in bitcoin which drives BitPay’s B2B business growth.”

Shifting From HODL to BUIDL

The law firm also announced the expansion of AFB by hiring three new legal experts to meet growing demand from clients in the field, despite the ongoing crypto winter. It has been representing fintech and blockchain ventures since the summer of 2017 and assists clients with platform design, securities and digital asset offerings, regulatory analysis, money transmitter licenses, broker-dealer registrations and general corporate and IP-related matters.

“While our team’s own bitcoin wallets have been hit hard by the crypto winter, the downturn has accelerated industry maturation,” said corporate attorney Ross Barbash, head of Atrium Fintech and Blockchain. “In contrast to the frothiness of 12 months ago, investment is now more consistently flowing to talented teams working on meaningful projects. With the shift from HODL to BUIDL, we are finding it easier to identify and collaborate with the teams that both have the necessary dev chops and are committed to compliance. We are extremely lucky to have a team with diverse legal skills and deep understanding of the ecosystem that enables us to deliver informed, multidisciplinary advice for our clients. We speak our clients’ language and now accept payment in their preferred currency.”

What do you think about law firms accepting bitcoin payments? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Satoshi’s Pulse, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.