DATE:  12.10.2019, 01:18:40
TITLE: 4 New High-Powered Bitcoin Miners Revealed
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/4-new-high-powered-bitcoin-miners-revealed/

4 New High-Powered Bitcoin Miners Revealed

Bitmain Technologies and Canaan Creative have announced new mining rigs that process roughly 58-73 terahash per second (TH/s). Sources also reveal that Canaan’s initial public offering (IPO) could be listed in the U.S. next month.

Also Read: Mining Firm Canaan Creative Secures Hundreds of Millions of Dollars in Funding

Bitmain and Canaan Introduce Bitcoin Miners That Process 70 Terahash per Second

The 2019 World Digital Mining Summit (WDMS) has finished after hosting a large event filled with digital currency miners from all around the world. Many businesses and mining operations attended like Bitmain, Genesis Mining, Bitcoin.com, Btc.com, Btc.top, Viabtc, and Poolin. During the summit, Bitmain revealed two new miners that process hashrate speeds of up to 70+TH/s.

Bitmain announced the new Antminer S17+ with 73TH/s and with a power efficiency rating at roughly 40 joules per terahash (J/TH). The China-based manufacturer also revealed the Antminer T17+, which claims to process 64TH/s and uses around 50 J/TH. Bitmain’s S17+ costs around $2,833 and the company says units will ship during the first week of December. The T17+ is shipping out at the same time and the lower end model pre-order prices are $1,802 per unit.

Canaan’s newly announced miners include two Avalonminer models called the A1146 and the A1166. Unlike Bitmain’s new Antminers, the Avalonminer A1146 and A1166 are not yet available for purchase on the company’s website and customers can only buy the 10 series at the moment. Canaan recently launched its 1066 models, which claim to process 50TH/s and pull 3,250 watts from the wall. The pre-ordered 1066 models will ship in November, according to the website, and cost $1,390 per unit.

The high-powered A1146 and the A1166 models were revealed by Canaan at Poolin’s recent mining summit held in Chengdu, China. The entry-level Canaan A1146 series processes at speeds between 58-61TH/s. The professional-grade A1166 performs at 70TH/s with a power efficiency of around 47 watts per terahash. Reports detail that Canaan has not yet revealed prices or what type of chips are used in the 11 series devices. Canaan’s 11 series sample prototypes were shown to participants at Poolin’s conference.

Sources Say Canaan Will Soon Be Listed in the U.S.

Reportedly, Canaan Creative will also be listed in the U.S. in mid-November. Regional publications disclose that “people with knowledge of the matter” have said Canaan will be valued at $1.5 billion. The company quietly filed for an initial public offering (IPO) in the U.S. in January and at the time, reports detailed it was seeking $200 million. The undisclosed source revealed 1.26 billion Canaan shares will be issued next month, but Canaan would not provide any comments to the press. Canaan’s confidential filing follows the company’s recent attempt in Hong Kong, but the chip manufacturer let the application expire. It’s also been claimed that Canaan Creative had secured hundreds of millions of dollars in funding in March.

Similarly, Bitmain is allegedly attempting a covert IPO filing in the U.S. as well, according to individuals close to the company. Canaan could end up being the first major mining company to be allowed to conduct an IPO in a traditional capital market. Another large Chinese mining manufacturer, Ebang, had also applied for IPO status in Hong Kong and refiled its draft prospectus for a second time nine months ago.

What do you think about the new miners being sold by Bitmain and the two Avalonminers announced by Canaan? What do you think about the possibility of Canaan being listed in the U.S. this November? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Bitmain, Canaan, New Era Mining Summit, WDMS, and 8btc.

Do you want to maximize your Bitcoin Mining potential? Plug your own hardware into the world’s most profitable Bitcoin mining pool or get started without having to own hardware through one of our competitive Bitcoin cloud mining contracts.