DATE:  12.07.2019, 20:02:37
TITLE: Bitcoin Price Analysis: Bullish Divergence At $11,500
URL:   https://bitcoinist.com/bitcoin-price-analysis-bullish-divergence-at-11500/

Trading Bitcoin Price Analysis: Bullish Divergence At $11,500

Bitcoin price hit a peak of $13,000 on the 10th of July just two days ago. Since this price levels have pulled back to POC (Point of Control) around $11,300 as mentioned in my previous bitcoin price analysis. Three descending lows are evident on the 30 Minute time-frame alongside descending volume and ascending RSI which is a clear indication of bullish divergence.

Bitcoin Price 30 Minute Analysis

On the 30-minute bitcoin price analysis chart, we can see clear bullish divergence playing out. Bright as day, we can see highlighted the descending peaks in both price action and volume. In addition to this, RSI (Relative Strength Index) shows clear ascending momentum. These are the three main points to look out for when trying to gauge bullish divergence, this coupled with the fact that market price is trading at POC (Point of Control) around $11,600 begins to paint a very bullish picture for BTC’s short-term price action.

Both the 50MA and 200EMA are sandwiching market price, this is a clear indication of consolidation before a big move. BTC’s volume is at it’s lowest in the last 3 Days and price levels aren’t continuing to dump meaning there’s good support around the current market price.

Provided the bullish divergence plays out as expected, price levels could break July’s monthly high of $13,000 over the coming days. The trend is still very much bullish and bears don’t seem to be gaining much momentum as outlined in yesterday’s bitcoin price analysis on BTC.

Understanding Bullish Divergence

Bullish divergence is simply when the candlesticks create lower lows and your indicators create higher highs. This signals that bearish selling momentum during a pull-back or correction is starting to fade out. Understanding how to spot divergence in the market is a crucial fundamental skill that every crypto trader must learn. Characteristics such as a clear curve in short-term price action as highlighted in my technical analysis above on BTC, and three or two clear descending lows in price action.

Regular Bullish Divergence

Reversal of current downtrend

Second or third low.

Price makes new Lower Low, but the indicator makes Higher Low.

Trend changes to the upside.

Traders in both traditional and emerging financial markets will grasp a firm understanding of how to spot divergence. Given the volatile nature of cryptocurrencies, being able to predict future price action based on the simple rules above can provide assistance in developing your edge in the market, and in becoming a profitable trader. Below you can see an example of bullish divergence playing out in the Forex markets.

Do you utilize divergence as a part of your trading strategy? Let us know in the comments below!

Images via Shutterstock, Tradingview