DATE:  17.12.2019, 00:33:05
TITLE: Two Canadian brothers plead guilty to Bitcoin scheme that duped Gresham woman out of more than $140,000
URL:   https://www.oregonlive.com/business/2019/12/two-canadian-brothers-plead-guilty-to-bitcoin-scheme-that-duped-gresham-woman-out-of-more-than-140000.html

Two Canadian brothers on Monday pleaded guilty to duping an Oregonian woman out of more than $140,000 worth of bitcoin currency.

Jagroop Singh Khatkar, 24, surrendered to federal authorities for the negotiated plea agreement and appeared together with his brother, Karanjit Singh Khatkhar, 23, before U.S. District Judge Michael H. Simon in federal court in Portland.

The brothers, of Surrey, British Columbia, each pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit wire fraud and money laundering.

Under the plea agreement, the government will recommend each serve two years in prison when sentenced on March 17.

Karanjit Khatkar lost his job with Fluor Corp. in Canada as an associate design engineering specialist about a month after his arrest on July 18, according to court records.

FBI agents arrested him at McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas after he arrived there from Canada. He was then returned to Oregon to face indictment.

The older brother didn’t turn himself in until Monday.

The two brothers stole about 23 bitcoin, worth about $140,000 at the time yet more than $160,254 today, from a 63-year-old Gresham woman after they created a fake Twitter account to impersonate the Hong Kong-baed HitBTC bitcoin exchange.

They tricked the woman into contacting the Twitter account @HitBTCAssist for support and got her to provide her email address. They then used access to her email to take over her account at the bitcoin exchange, according to prosecutors.

With access to the woman’s bitcoin exchange account, Karanjit Khatkar confirmed transfers of the woman’s bitcoin to his bitcoin exchange account at Kraken, which is based in the United States. Then, he shared the proceeds with his brother.

“He immediately transferred approximately 50% of the stolen bitcoin to his brother. Over the next few months, he cashed out the remaining bitcoin in exchange for Canadian currency,” according to Assistant U.S. Attorney Quinn Harrington.

The victim of the crime, who watched the plea hearing Monday and asked not to be identified, said she contacted through Twitter what she thought was the service account for the cryptocurrency exchange HitBTC when she needed help withdrawing Bitcoin. She said she never realized she was being scammed until her virtual currency was gone from her account. She said she alerted the FBI by filling out a cybercrime form online and met with agents who were interested in investigating.

Of the defendants, she said Monday, “I feel sorry for them. I have a son that’s 27. I hope they can turn their smarts into something more beneficial.’’

She also said she was pleasantly surprised to learn she may get her money back.

Harrington told the court he received a $142,349 check Monday from the defendants to be put toward restitution for the victim. Law enforcement already seized about $6,000 in U.S currency and $230 in Canadian currency from the brothers, according to prosecutors.

Karanjit Singh Khatkar remains in custody.

The judge agreed to release Jagroop Singh Khatkar, who told the court he’s finishing his college degree, pending sentencing. If he fails to appear at his sentencing, he’ll be sentenced regardless, and the plea agreement will no longer stand, Harrington said.

The maximum sentence for conspiring to commit wire fraud is 20 years in prison. The maximum sentencing for conspiring to commit money laundering is 10 years in prison.

At a prior court hearing, the prosecutor told the court that Karanjit Singh Khatkar, 23, had urged his older brother to stay out of the United States to avoid arrest.

-- Maxine Bernstein

Email at mbernstein@oregonian.com

Follow on Twitter @maxoregonian

Visit subscription.oregonlive.com/newsletters to get Oregonian/OregonLive journalism delivered to your email inbox.