DATE:  18.06.2019, 13:30:44
TITLE: Binance to Launch Bitcoin-Pegged Token on Its Own Blockchain
URL:   https://www.coindesk.com/binance-to-launch-bitcoin-pegged-token-on-its-own-blockchain

Binance will issue a number of tokens pegged to leading cryptocurrencies on Binance Chain to boost the number of trading options on its platform.

The tokens are also likely to be extended to Binance DEX, the firm’s recently launched decentralized exchange, as they create the potential to in effect move cryptos from different blockchains onto its network.

The company said in a blog post that it expects to release the first such token – one pegged to bitcoin and to be listed as BTCB – in the coming days. A trading pair will be created on Binance.com between the pegged token and bitcoin (BTCB/BTC).

The crypto-pegged tokens, based on the exchange’s BEP2 format, will be backed by Binance’s reserves of the pegged cryptocurrency. Before the news was announced Monday, CEO Changpeng “CZ” Zhao tweeted a warning of an impending move of bitcoin for the purpose.

There will be a transfer of 9001 BTC soon, no need to FUD. It’s for a good thing, details to follow. Waiting for whale_alert. — CZ Binance (@cz_binance) June 17, 2019



Binance explained in the post:

“Large buy orders will be maintained on the trading pair on Binance.com, with a price spread of around 0.1%. This provides an easy way for anyone to convert from the pegged token back into the native coin on Binance.com. If this buy order is filled, a new order will be placed while an equal amount of funds will be deposited from the reserve address into Binance.com. The sum of the buy order and the funds on the published reserve address will be bigger than the total supply of the pegged token, ensuring there is always 100% backing.”

The Binance team reasoned that the increase in the selection of tokens available on Binance DEX will increase trading volume and liquidity, thereby furthering the utility and value of the platform.

Also noteworthy is that Binance is eschewing the option to use to cross-chain atomic swaps or other decentralized approaches to enable exchanges of non-native tokens on the DEX.

The company said:

“While this approach is more centralized than atomic swaps, we believe it provides a higher degree of ease-of-use to most traders. And most traders are already trusting Binance.com to hold their funds anyway.”

In the post, the firm said that the new tokens are “proposed” for launch on Binance DEX currently.

Additionally, because the reserve addresses will be published on the blockchain, Binance said the new crypto-pegged tokens will be easier to audit than traditional bank reserves.

The company is encouraging clients to issue pegged tokens of their own coins on the Binance Chain, offering (though not guaranteeing) to facilitate a pegged/native pair.

Earlier this month, Binance also confirmed to Bloomberg that it would soon launch stablecoins on its chain too.

Chief financial officer, Wei Zhou, said the first stablecoin offering, to be linked to the British pound, will be live on the platform “in a matter of weeks to a month or two.”

Changpeng Zhao image courtesy of Binance