DATE:  30.01.2020, 04:00:15
TITLE: More Than 50 Crypto Marketing Agencies Survived the Crypto Winter
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/50-crypto-marketing-agencies-survived/

More Than 50 Crypto Marketing Agencies Survived the Crypto Winter

The cryptocurrency industry has grown exponentially and there are many facets to the blockchain industry. One specific area of expertise that’s grown significantly in the last few years is the expansion of marketing agencies within the blockchain and cryptocurrency space. In 2020 there are more than 50 marketing companies that help crypto firms and projects get noticed but the process can be costly.

Also read: Dubai Launching Crypto Valley in Tax-Free Zone – No Personal or Corporate Income Tax

Researcher Rates Over 50 Crypto and Blockchain Marketing Agencies

Since the inception of Bitcoin, the last 11 years have seen the industry grow and there’s a variety of different employment opportunities for individuals looking to work in the blockchain space. Just recently, news.Bitcoin.com reported on the 8,000 blockchain and crypto jobs available today. Another sector of the industry that thrived during the crypto winter, despite fallen crypto prices and lack of interest, is the crypto conference scene. In addition to conferences and events, crypto and blockchain-related marketing agencies have also flourished since 2017.

Top 10 Tech Skills in demand in 2020: 1. Machine Learning

2. Mobile Development

3. SEO/SEM Marketing

4. Data Visualization

5. Data Engineering

6. UI/UX Design

7. Cyber-security

8. Cloud Computing/AWS

9. Blockchain

10. IOT — Gohil Nimesh (@NimeshAGohil) January 23, 2020

Some researchers believe marketing operations may see a “shakeout” in 2020 as trends like the ICO market have regressed. Still, there are more than 50 crypto marketing firms today that offer promotion of cryptocurrency companies, new blockchain products, and initial coin offerings as well. Some of these firms have a large number of clientele and portfolios, and clients have raised millions of dollars since they started advertising. News.Bitcoin.com was given a comprehensive research study of the top 50 marketing agencies in 2020 from a researcher named Artem Artemovich.

For instance, there’s the firm DAO Maker which offers marketing consultancy and a proprietary product called “Social Mining technology.” According to Artemovich, DAO Maker clients raised $23 million (clients’ money raised) and 2019 clients include the LTO Network, Elrond Network, and Ecomi. Artemovich notes that the software product starts at $1,500 and marketing and consulting services start at $5,000.

A marketing consulting firm dubbed Block72’s clientele has raised $14.6 million and has clients such as Elynet, Apm Coin, Ultra, and Bitmovio. Artemovich’s data shows that Block72 specializes in token sales and marketing packages start at $35,000. There’s Blockgroup.global which saw clients raise $8 million and the company sells packages for $15,000. Wachsman.com is a PR company that saw its customers raise $5 million in 2019 and it’s PR packages start at $12,000. The media agency Coincurb sells media packages for $1,000 and its clientele allegedly raised $131 million last year.

There’s also Sale-and-ads.com which offers individual price quotes, Cryptolandpr.com charges $8,000 for media services, and Guerrillabuzz.com offers online quote requests for marketing services. Artemovich also mentions firms like Icobulls, Tokeny solutions, Ethereumlab Tech, Ibcgroup, Ninjapromo, Blocketo, Chaineum, Amazix, and Bounty Bull.

Many of these marketing agencies seemingly have millions of dollars in contracts and packages can be anywhere from $1,000 to $30,000. Ninjapromo has a straight charge of 1 BTC for its packages and other marketing agencies offer individual quotes for pricing. All of the aforementioned marketing firms are considered “Tier 1-3” agencies as far as Artemovich’s review is concerned. For example, there are three tier 1 firms, six tier 2 companies, and 41 of the marketing agencies listed are tier 3.

“2019 has led to the demolition of many blockchain operations,” Artemovich’s report underlined. “Hundreds of exchanges have shuttered, established crypto companies have laid off entire departments, and token sales have dwindled to a tiny fraction of the scale they achieved in 2018.” As far as marketing agencies go, the crypto winter was hard but it has also provided some companies with new possibilities. Artemovich added:

This year has been a transparent ground for operators in the crypto space to demonstrate their genuine capability, and not merely rely on a rising tide. Blockchain, crypto, or ICO marketing agencies have had a challenging year, but it has given them the opportunity to show what they are really capable of.

A Possible 2020 Marketing Agency Shakeout and Blockchain Startups That Want to Eat the Incumbents’ Lunch

Other PR, marketing and consulting firms mentioned within Artemovich’s list include Cryptoken media, Icograph, Markchain, Flexe, MLG Blockchain, Forklog Consulting, Chainplus, Principal Strategic, and Coinpoint. Artemovich emphasized that his list doesn’t just look at company names but also assesses performance. The research details a clients’ post-listing performance return-on-investment (ROI), key exchange presence, and how much money their clients raised last year. Additionally, research data from neverstopmarketing.com shows that there’s a large group of blockchain startups aiming to take the slew of centralized marketing agencies’ revenue.

Artemovich’s report notes that in 2017 and 2018, marketing agencies saw a lot of action as the ICO market made it so “almost no effort needing to be exerted.” “However, times have changed and ICO funding has dropped steeply, mandating the need for legitimate solutions,” Artemovich insisted. The researcher concluded by adding:

Thus, most market players failed in 2019 due to as their offerings were not able to satisfy the needs of the relatively higher quality projects that surfaced in 2019. The most successful agencies in 2019 had their own unique approach and products, often guaranteeing certain results. Moving into 2020, it is easy to see that the shakeout in the agency market is going to intensify.

What do you think about the vast list of cryptocurrency and blockchain marketing agencies available in 2020? Did you know there were more than 50 crypto marketing firms? Let us know what you think about this topic in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, marketing agencies or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article. throughout

Image credits: Shutterstock, Dao Maker, neverstopmarketing.com, Ninjapromo, Wachsman.com, Fair Use, Wiki Commons, and Pixabay.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.