DATE:  11.01.2019, 09:08:23
TITLE: Senior Bitcoin Investor: Earning Money on Bexplus During Bear Market
URL:   https://bitsonline.com/bitcoin-senior-money-bexplus-bear-market/

Senior Bitcoin Investor: Earning Money on Bexplus During Bear Market

Flip Share Pin 2 Shares

Declining from $20,000, in the second half of 2018 and most recently, Bitcoin has dropped to $3800 at the press time. Bitcoin as well as cryptocurrency speculators are wondering if 2019 the year for the bull. However, in my opinion the bull market may not come soon. Whenever Bitcoin breaks out to $6,000, will the crypto market go up. So is it possible to earn money during the cryptocurrency bear market? The answer is absolutely YES.

If you’ve traded BTC spot before, you must know that you can only make profits when its price rises. Thus, trading the spot when the market is down is not a good investing option. Instead, Bitcoin futures contract as well as other altcoins futures trading are popular among investors, which enables you to earn money no matter the price rises or falls.

What is Cryptocurrency Futures Trading?

Cryptocurrency futures trading is a kind of agreement to buy or sell a certain amount of crypto assets at a specific price with X times leverage added. For example, buy/long BTC means that speculator can place a “bet” on the price of BTC will rise in the future. On the contrary, sell/short BTC means to “bet” on BTC falls. In addition, with X times leverage added, investors can enter a large trade though they hold a smaller amount of BTC. Some investors, especially the beginners may think that futures trading is relatively high risk. But different from the traditional futures contract, Perpetual contract allows you to set stop-profit and stop-loss point, which helps you control the risks.

Read up here, you may be interested in investing Bitcoin futures contract. But which exchange offers crypto futures trading? Is it safe? These are the questions may come to you now. Owing to the popularity of crypto futures trading, more and more exchanges apply futures contract for different types of tokens. As for me, I traded 100x leverage BTC futures in Bexplus and I recommend it to you.

What is Bexplus and Why to Choose it?

Bexplus exchange is a relatively new cryptocurrency futures exchange, established in late 2017. Different from some other common exchanges, Bexplus only offers Bitcoin, Ethereum

and Litecoin perpetual contracts with 100x leverage. With 100x leverage added, if you open a short position with 1 BTC, you will get 100 BTC if the price of BTC drops 1%; And if you open a long position with 1 BTC, you will also get 100% profits when BTC rises 1%.

Besides offering cryptocurrency futures trading, investors in Bexplus can also enjoy the investment consultant service, from where you can get some trading signals and tips. Before getting into the real-time trade, investors can try it in the trading simulator with 10 BTC preset. These are helpful services especially for beginners. That’s also why Bexplus has gained thousands of millions of users just in one-year. In addition, it provides P/L calculation which supports you to measure the profit before opening a order.

Latest Activities ongoing in Bexplus

There are two activities are available in Bexplus.

Deposit Activity to Earn 50% BTC Cashback

To deposit BTC in the Bexplus account, you can earn 50% BTC bonus, which can also be used to trade futures contract and withdrawn. The more deposit, the more bonus you will get!

Read more: https://www.bexplus.com/en/cash_back

Believe it not, cryptocurrency futures trading will become the mainstream transaction mode in crypto market. If you haven’t yet traded BTC futures contract and want to have a try, Bexplus exchange is a good place where you can get started.

Register with invitation code PCDfB to enjoy 10% OFF charge fee.

Follow Bexplus on:

Website: www.bexplus.com

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Bexplusglobal/

Twitter: https://twitter.com/bexplus

Telegram: https://t.me/bexplusexchange

Reddit: www.reddit.com/u/bexplus

For Business cooperation: [email protected]

WhatsApp：+852 6728 7550

Messenger：amamdac122

Telegram：@AmandaC122

Images via Bexplus, Pixabay

Bexplus is a Bitsonline Blockchain Shaper, and provided the information used in this article.

Flip Share Pin 2 Shares