DATE:  13.03.2020, 07:00:00
TITLE: Bitrump, the crypto exchange, adds yet another prominent crypto currency, Bitcoin Cash, to its rich product portfolio
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/bitrump-crypto-exchange-adds-yet-070000359.html

The world-renowned and leading digital asset trading platform, Bitrump, headquartered in the UAE, has added yet another popular and prominent crypto to its trading platform thus continuing its pledge to offer its customers a wide range of diversified crypto assets to add to their portfolios.

DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, March 13, 2020 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- The UAE based cryptocurrency exchange operates crypto trading volumes of $67,585,489.76. The company follows strict guidelines for choosing utility coins for exchange listing. Bitcoin cash complies with the strict protocols and guidelines which are required for Bitrump's exchange listing. Only the very best industry practices in terms of legal, compliance, security and technology are utilized for adding cryptocurrencies on its exchange platform.

Apart from supporting a seamless trading platform for an already extensive list of offerings, like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Bitcoin Cash, Tether and many more offerings, the company has just introduced Bitcoin cash which has become a popular digital asset worldwide. The crypto has gained popularity and is widely sought after by traders.

The coin

Bitcoin cash is a popular cryptocurrency. Merchants and users prefer this crypto which has a bright future in terms of growth in market cap, value increase, global adoption rates, permissionless innovation, and decentralized development. The crypto is reliable, stable, and simple and is backed by the world's most robust and secure blockchain technology. Bitcoin cash has a market capitalization of $4,416,663,409.

The company is committed to offering customized solutions like a seamless trading platform with KYC and AMC compliances. The company is committed to offering many more cryptocurrencies, which in the future may become popular with investors.

Raj Chowdhury, a Blockchain pioneer and the Executive Director of Bitrump said in a statement, "We are committed to offering the very best products and services to our customers that are aligned with the latest emerging trends in the crypto markets."

Story continues

Bitrump's fully integrated trading platform, with a lucid customer-friendly user interface and ease of operability, offers an unmatched trading experience. Customers would get access to several types of crypto's and digital assets.

The cryptocurrency world is dynamic and ever-changing, as such, new cryptocurrencies are picking up and gaining popularity among traders all the time. Keeping up with the fast pace of change, Bitrump is committed to offering a wide selection of different digital assets for the benefit of its users. The company is committed to more cryptocurrency addition to its exchange platform in the future.

About the company

Bitrump is a world-leading digital asset trading platform based in the UAE. It supports cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Litecoin, & Tether. Bitrump was founded by blockchain enthusiasts and the Bitrump core team comprises professionals from world-renowned internet and finance companies, including the earliest adopters/professionals of cryptocurrencies who have rich experience in blockchain R&D, global operations and associated services in the industry. It is the first fully regulated exchange based in the UAE. Bitrump is engaging with the central bank of the UAE to formulate a regulatory policy framework for cryptocurrency exchanges operating in the region.

SOURCE Bitrump