DATE:  13.03.2020, 20:41:19
TITLE: Coronavirus Spreading In Crypto: Ex-Ethereum Dev Afri Schoedon Infected
URL:   https://www.newsbtc.com/2020/03/13/coronavirus-spreading-crypto-ethereum-dev-afri-schoedon-infected/

The novel coronavirus has started to affect crypto communities, specifically that of Ethereum. After a number of ETH-related events took place in Europe earlier this month, two individuals have announced that they have contracted COVID-19, the illness that is caused by the novel coronavirus that originated in China late last year.

Ethereum Community Members Catch Coronavirus

According to a tweet from Afri Schoedon, an ex-Ethereum developer and programmer, he has just “tested positive for” COVID-19. While it isn’t clear where exactly he caught the virus, Schoedon explains that “given [his] symptoms and timing,” he was probably infected at the Ethereum Community Conference 3 in France, held from March 3rd to 5th.

I was tested positive for #COVID19. Given my symptoms and timing, I was probably infected at @EthCC_ and/or one of the side/after events. If you have flu symptoms after EthCC, please get tested and stay home. — Afr (@a4fri) March 13, 2020

While unfortunate, the crypto programmer is seemingly not within the high-risk category when having COVID-19, which includes those that are older and those with diabetes and other previous health issues.

Schoedon’s diagnosis comes just a day or two after Zhen Yu Yong — co-founder of Torus Labs, a crypto startup working on “one-click logins for your dapp” — announced on Twitter that he has also been infected.

Like the Ethereum developer, he attended ETHCC, along with ETHLondon, the hackathon that took place from February 28th to March 1st.

NewsBTC wishes Schoedon and Zhen well, along with others infected with the novel coronavirus.

Events Are Getting Cancelled

Considering that members of the crypto community are contracting COVID-19, it’s no surprise that event organizers have been forced to postpone their events.

Per previous reports from NewsBTC, Bitcoin 2020 has been “postponed from March 27 and 28, 2020, to Q3 of 2020.”

Despite the delay, the organizers remain optimistic, writing in the note:

Having spent the last year preparing for Bitcoin 2020 along with an amazing group of speakers, panelists, sponsors and partners, we’re disappointed to ask you to wait a few more months. But we’re confident that Bitcoin 2020 will still serve as the biggest and best celebration of Bitcoin in history at this later date.

Bitcoin 2020’s postponement comes after similar moves from the operators of other crypto events, such as D.C. Blockchain Summit, Token 2049, niTROn, and CoinDesk’s Consensus.

Featured Image from Shutterstock