DATE:  13.03.2020, 09:29:48
TITLE: iCE3X Becomes First South African Exchange to Launch Exchange Token
URL:   https://bitcoinke.io/2020/03/ice3x-launches-exchange-token/

[PRESS RELEASE: March 13th, 2020]

iCE3 Exchange is launching a native utility token called Artificial Intelligence Coin (AIC) on 13 March 2020. AIC is a utility token allowing holders of the token to receive discounted trading fees and participation in decisions of new listings, features and functionality of the platform. AI Coin is an ERC20 token on the Ethereum network.

Buyers can trade bitcoin (BTC) to buy AIC, and vice versa for sellers. Holders of 1000 AIC coins or more can get 50% discount on all trading fees and 100% discount on trading fees on balances of 10 000 AIC coins or more. You will receive preferential offers based on your balance and can request features from the service desk.

SEE ALSO: South Africa’s Oldest Crypto Exchange, ICE3X, Introduces Free Instant Rand Deposits in Under 60 Seconds

According to Gareth Grobler, iCE3, Founder:

“Our platform allows quick and nimble token offerings, including our own AIC utility token” He went on to say, “The AIC token uses decentralised mechanisms to provide customer rewards seamlessly, enhancing our relationships with our users and ecosystem intuitively.”

Speaking on the launch, Eugéne Etsebeth, COO, iCE3X Exchange, said:

“iCE3 has a high release rate of valuable and customer-centric offerings. Our platform is designed to rapidly deploy products and features.”

The objective of iCE3 Exchange is to offer clients the best service to buy and sell (trade) cryptocurrencies and fiat pairs on a trusted exchange by integrating with numerous business partners including a cryptocurrency exchange platform provider, financial institutions, merchant services, wallets, custodial services, insurance and scratch cards in order to build an ecosystem around the iCE3 platform.

Follow us on Twitter for latest posts and updates

Open a Paxful Bitcoin Trading Account today!