DATE:  02.04.2019, 18:00:04
TITLE: Cryptocurrency Mutual Funds; associated risks and savings
URL:   https://www.cryptopolitan.com/making-investments-with-cryptocurrency-mutual-funds-associated-risks-and-saving/

Mutual funds are a great way of benefiting from experts in the financial world. Crypto investors who lack the knowledge and experience in investing their Bitcoins engage with mutual fund have returns from different assets. The professionals in this industry limit the risk exposure by having a varied portfolio, specifically bonds and stocks.

The major difference between crypto mutual funds and ordinary mutual funds is that the former makes use of cryptocurrencies in investing other than bonds and stocks. The objective of this crypto mutual fund is to help new entrants invest their cryptocurrencies, thus benefiting from assets they would otherwise find hard to understand. So the investor provides the fund, while the crypto mutual fund professionals carry out the trading and other transactions.

Expert’s Advantages

Crypto mutual fund is a new function area in the industry. It is an eventual step since financial transactions also occur in the crypto world. Like other investments, crypto investing require some level of understanding to function in the business. It is quite different from the ordinary stock investing where investors happen to own part of the business.

The best option then is to employ the services of a crypto fund manager. The manager takes on all the risk involved in the crypto investment, taking actions immediately they are received. This relieves the investor of the stress and time-consuming exercise of following the digital market.

The fund manager also eliminates the confusion the investor would have entered into studying the market. It is always the case for new entrants in cryptocurrency as they usually get confused studying the terms, transactions, and risks involved. The fund manager ensures the new entrant does not go through all the rigors of the market.

The digital market benefits more from mutual fund investments. If the investors engage directly, due to the high level of confusion in the market, they would tilt the market structure. If the fund managers manage the same amount of money, it would be different.

As crypto mutual fund investments become more acceptable in the community, the digital market which has always being considered as a volatile market will become more stable with more funds in it. When this happens there will be more available funds in the market with diversified risks.

Even though money would not usually be a problem in the crypto market, the stability that can set in when less inexperienced persons trade individually can never be overstated.

Same Mutual Funds Risks

As making investments in the financial world, there are down times in the digital market associated with mutual funds. For these new investors in the market, they might fear the risk associated with entering the market too early, the risk of making loses themselves. They might also harbor the thought of paying fees which would outweigh the gains they would otherwise make.

The first associated risk is the risk of giving out your money to someone else to manage. For those who are already experienced in this, it might not be a major challenge to them. But for those who have been through good and bad times, it could be a block for them.

Volatility is also a risk experienced in the market.

Even though the trading is done with cryptocurrencies, it is very much the same with simple mutual funds trading. As with the volatile nature of cryptocurrency, investors in search for more stable mutual funds can invest in other funds management. The last risk which shouldn’t be considered as one is the fee associated with operating mutual funds.

Some Crypto Mutual Fund Managers

First Block Capital is one of the first crypto mutual funds to be opened in Canada. The fund can be assessed on the NEO connect platform and being the first to be approved by BCSC is a major achievement for the fund. The fund is available to be traded easily as many Exchange Traded Funds.