DATE:  25.07.2019, 19:50:05
TITLE: Croatian Post Is Helping Croatians Convert Bitcoin To Kuna
URL:   https://bitcoinist.com/croatian-post-is-helping-croatians-convert-bitcoin-to-kuna/

Bitcoin News Croatian Post Is Helping Croatians Convert Bitcoin To Kuna

Croatian Post is trialling a crypto exchange service in Zadar. It enables customers to convert their Bitcoin to Kuna, the national fiat currency.

Users Can Buy Kuna with BTC, ETH, XLM, XRP, and EOS

On Thursday, Croatian Post (Hrvatska Pošta) announced that it is testing a crypto exchange service for cryptocurrency users. The state-owned corporation introduced the new service on July 15 of this year.

Croatian Post’s move suggests that the government of the Republic of Croatia is open to embrace the crypto revolution.

The Southeastern European country has seen an increasing number of Bitcoin and cryptocurrency users over the past few years. It seems that Croatian Post wants to give a hand to the crypto community with its network of 1,016 postal offices.

Bitcoin owners who want to exchange their crypto funds for cash can do this through several post offices in Zadar. Currently, the Croatian Post helps clients to convert crypto to Kuna only. Besides Bitcoin, the service supports Ethereum, Stellar, Ripple, and EOS.

The exchange process is not lengthy, as one could expect from most postal services in Croatia. Users have to fill an application and scan a QR code. Then, they can raise their cash in the post office. Currently, the crypto-to-fiat conversion service is available in three post offices (Škožići Benje 1, Josip Juraj Strossmayera 8 and Maslenica Street 1) in Zadar, a city located on the Dalmatian coast.

The project is implemented in collaboration with Croatian startup Electrocoin. The latter has been running the local crypto exchange service bitcoin-mjenjacnica.hr for about five years.

Croatia Has Been Blockchain-Friendly

While some governments try to limit the use of cryptocurrency on their territory, Croatia seems not to be worried about the expansion of the crypto industry.

The country has also proven to encourage blockchain projects. At the beginning of this year, the capital city of Zagreb announced the launch of a city-wide blockchain strategy. Three companies were competing for a contract with Zagreb authorities, including professional services giant Deloitte, Croatian open-source platform operator Omega Software, and Croatian software firm IT Sistemi – Nove Tehnologije (IT Systems – New Technologies).

Do you think the Croatian Post’s trial will succeed and the service will get to other cities soon? Share your thoughts in the comments section!

Images via Shutterstock, posta.hr (Croatian Post),