DATE:  25.01.2020, 17:00:00
TITLE: Leading Swiss Stock Exchange Now Offers 12 Crypto Exchange-Traded Products
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/leading-swiss-stock-exchange-cryptocurrency-exchange-traded-products-shorts-bitcoin/

Leading Swiss Stock Exchange Now Offers 12 Crypto Exchange-Traded Products

Switzerland’s principal stock exchange, SIX Swiss Exchange, now has 12 cryptocurrency exchange-traded products listed. The latest addition, the 21shares Short Bitcoin, allows investors to profit from falling prices of the digital currency. Other listed crypto products include those that track the price movements of BCH, BTC, ETH, XRP, BNB, and tezos.

Also read: Regulatory Roundup — New US Crypto Tax Bill, Central Banks Join Forces on Digital Currencies

Newest Addition: An Inverse Product

SIX Swiss Exchange has listed an inverse bitcoin exchange-traded product (ETP) issued by fintech company Amun AG. The company announced on Thursday that this product “is the first short or inverse product of its kind using a digital asset as the underlying for an ETP structure.”

The product “tracks the opposite performance of bitcoin to give investors an easy, cost-effective and convenient way to gain exposure in both directions of the bitcoin price movements,” the company detailed. It is “designed to enable investors to profit from falling adverse price movements of bitcoin.” According to the announcement:

The 21shares Short Bitcoin ETP (Ticker: SBTC) seeks to provide a -1x return to the performance of bitcoin for a single day. This product obtains short exposure through borrowing bitcoin and simultaneously selling it on an execution platform.

According to SIX Swiss Exchange’s website, the 21shares Short Bitcoin ETP started trading on Jan. 22. It is rebalanced daily, resetting at the end of each day, and its performance is not rolled over.

12 ETPs Listed on Leading Swiss Stock Exchange

SIX Swiss Exchange has a range of crypto ETPs listed. The first one was the Amun Crypto Basket Index ETP in USD, which began trading on Nov. 21, 2018.

The exchange then listed 10 more ETPs in 2019, nine of which were issued by Amun. They are Crypto Basket Index, Bitcoin, Ethereum, XRP, Bitcoin Cash, Binance, Tezos, Bitcoin Suisse Index, Bitwise 10, and Sygnum Platform Winners Index — all trade in USD, except the Amun Bitcoin Suisse Index which trades in CHF. The 10th ETP launched on SIX Swiss Exchange last year was Wisdomtree Bitcoin in USD.

This year, besides the aforementioned inverse bitcoin ETP, the leading Swiss stock exchange began offering several existing Amun ETPs in additional currencies. On Jan. 7, the Amun Bitcoin ETP and the Amun Ethereum ETP started trading in both CHF and EUR in addition to USD. On the same day, the Amun Crypto Basket Index ETP started trading in EUR, with the Amun Crypto Basket Index as the underlying investment. According to Amun, all of its crypto ETPs are listed on SIX Swiss Exchange, BX Swiss and Boerse Stuttgart in CHF, USD and EUR.

Amun further explained in its Thursday announcement that “21shares” now represents the new name of all ETPs it issues. The 11 existing ones will be migrated over to the new brand during the second quarter of this year. Moreover, the company’s base prospectus for exchange-traded products has recently been approved by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority.

What do you think of all the cryptocurrency ETPs listed on SIX Swiss Exchange? Would you invest in the new inverse bitcoin ETP? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.



Images courtesy of Shutterstock and Amun AG.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.