DATE:  03.09.2019, 16:54:26
TITLE: Bitcoin Creator Deserves Nobel Peace Prize: Morgan Creek Exec.
URL:   https://www.ccn.com/bitcoin-creator-deserves-nobel-peace-prize-morgan-creek-exec/

Whoever the real Satoshi Nakamoto is, one long-time Bitcoin enthusiast thinks he, she, or they should win the Nobel Peace Prize.

The recommendation came from Anthony “Pomp” Pompliano, a partner at Morgan Creek Digital Assets.

Pompliano is not the first crypto bull to argue that the pseudonymous Bitcoin creator should receive the highly-acclaimed honor.

Tesla CEO Elon Musk even joked that Satoshi deserves a “Nobel prize in delayed gratification.”

“Worthless” prize not appropriate for Bitcoin creator?

The Nobel Peace Prize recognizes individuals for effecting change on social issues. As Alfred Nobel explained in his will:

“The said interest shall be divided into five equal parts, which shall be apportioned as follows: /- – -/ one part to the person who shall have done the most or the best work for fraternity between nations, the abolition or reduction of standing armies and for the holding and promotion of peace congresses.”

Pompliano argues that Satoshi fits the bill.

“We finally have a currency that can assume global reserve status without anyone having to engage in violence,” he wrote.

Criticism about who’s worthy to win the award – and who’s not – has increased over the years. It seems that’s spilled over to this debate about whether Bitcoin’s creator deserves the honor. And it’s not just fervent crypto skeptics who don’t believe Satoshi should win the prize.

Take this Twitter user, who argued that the Nobel Peace Price is “completely worthless” and further warned that it’s dangerous to give the award to an anonymous person.

What if Satoshi is Craig Wright?

Other critics have raised the “Craig Wright” issue when confronted with an argument to award the Nobel Prize to Satoshi.

Misir Mahmudov tweeted in March that Satoshi Nakamoto was worthy of receiving the Nobel Prize in Economics and Physics, too.

Mahmudov’s tweet led one person to point out Bitcoin’s creator could be the always-controversial Craig Wright, who claims to have invented the flagship cryptocurrency and has sued critics for refusing to admit it.