DATE:  03.09.2019, 11:53:00
TITLE: Bitcoin price: Cryptocurrency value surges amid Brexit chaos
URL:   https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/bitcoin-price-latest-brexit-cryptocurrency-market-pound-dollar-a9089596.html

The price of bitcoin has shot up over the last 24 hours amid global economic and geopolitical uncertainty.

Bitcoin rose above $10,000 overnight, taking it back above the milestone it fell below after a mini flash crash at the end of August. Other major cryptocurrencies also experienced a price boost, including ethereum, ripple and bitcoin cash.

A 6 per cent rise against the US dollar amounted to nearly 10 per cent of gains against the pound after turmoil surrounding Brexit sent the UK currency into free-fall. Market analysts have previously predicted that bitcoin will reach record highs if the UK leaves the European Union without a deal.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

Economic turmoil in Argentina, combined with an escalating trade war between the US and China, also helped to bolster bitcoin’s price, according to Marcus Swanepoel, CEO of cryptocurrency firm Luno.

“After lacklustre trading over the weekend, bitcoin went against the market trend yesterday, quickly breaking through the $10,000 level and reaching $10,500,” Swanepoel told The Independent.

“Today the focus will be on Europe and the Brexit developments in the UK, as well as the deepening crisis in Argentina. After the Labor Day holiday in the US, all markets are open, and we can expect to see volumes rising in what is normally the busiest trading month of the year.”

Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Show all 8 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters

The UK is set to leave Europe on 31 October, 2019, though this date could be delayed if parliament votes to block the possibility of a no-deal exit.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said he plans to take the UK out of Europe in time for the Brexit deadline, with or without a deal. If plans to block a no deal are passed then Johnson will likely call for a general election before the Brexit deadline.

Such uncertainty has seen the pound fall to its lowest level against the US dollar since January 2017. Neil Wilson, chief market analyst at Markets.com, said: “The outlook for sterling may well worsen if there is an election and will certainly deteriorate if it’s a no deal.”

The price of bitcoin is notoriously volatile but has seen a steady increase in its price throughout 2019. It has nearly trebled in price since the start of the year but still remains a long way of its record price of close to $20,000, which it hit in late 2017.

The prospect of an economically damaging Brexit, together with increased trade tariffs between the world’s two largest economies, has helped contribute to bitcoin’s resurgent price.

Some investors are even beginning to see the cryptocurrency as a safe-haven asset, similar to gold.

This is thanks to its finite supply – only 21 million bitcoins will ever exist – and the fact it relies on a borderless and decentralised infrastructure that is less prone to the effects of a single country or market.

Nicholas Gregory, CEO of blockchain firm CommerceBlock, recently told The Independent that bitcoin had “rediscovered its mojo” in 2019 thanks to an increasingly unstable global economy.

“A no-deal Brexit could see a massive and unprecedented breakout,” he said.

“Not only will a no-deal departure from the EU create turmoil and volatility across two major fiat currencies, it will also trigger an identity crisis for the global system as the contingency and vulnerability of major global fiat currencies is laid bare.”

We’ve teamed up with cryptocurrency trading platform eToro. Click here to get the latest Bitcoin rates and start trading. Cryptocurrencies are a highly volatile unregulated investment product. No EU investor protection. 75% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs.