DATE:  10.05.2019, 12:32:16
TITLE: How to Generate QR Codes for Crypto Payments
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/how-to-generate-qr-codes-for-crypto-payments/

How to Generate QR Codes for Crypto Payments

Businesses and projects in the crypto space have an incentive to facilitate cryptocurrency payments for their customers and users. With QR codes, acquiring a recipient’s address is easy – all it takes is a quick scan with a smartphone. A platform called Cwaqrgen provides a tool to generate codes.

Also read: Stay in Touch With Markets Using the Cryptowatch App

Website Offers Free QR Code Tool

Cwaqrgen.com is free for those who need QR codes to accept payments in different cryptocurrencies. You can use it to create a custom QR code for your public address and it supports a great variety of digital assets, including all major coins such as bitcoin cash (BCH), bitcoin core (BTC), ethereum (ETH), and litecoin (LTC).

The tool enables you to receive instant payments to your crypto wallet. Type in the name of the coin in the search bar and choose the one you want to generate a code for. The QR code has a thick border and displays the logo of the respective cryptocurrency in the middle of the box to make it easier for payers to identify it and avoid mistakes. Your public address is embedded in the QR code.

The code produced by Cwaqrgen can be downloaded as a PNG file and added to any website or printed. It’s recommended to verify if it matches your public address with a QR scanner after downloading the image.

For bitcoin cash (BCH) and bitcoin core (BTC) addresses, you can also use the Bitcoin.com wallet which has an integrated QR scanner and supports payments with QR codes. You can also try out the Bitcoin Cash Paper Wallet tool that will help you to securely store your BCH holdings. Find the generator in the Bitcoin Tools section along with many other useful tools developed by Bitcoin.com.

Cwaqrgen.com provides a link to its generator plugin’s source code. Its creators assert that they respect your privacy. There are no logs, cookies, or ads on the platform which relies on donations in multiple cryptocurrencies to cover its expenses.

What other QR code generators do you know? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Cwaqrgen.

Do you need a reliable Bitcoin mobile wallet to send, receive, and store your coins? Download one for free from us and then head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can quickly buy Bitcoin with a credit card.