DATE:  11.03.2020, 12:35:00
TITLE: INSBANK to Webcast Live at VirtualInvestorConferences.com March 12th
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/insbank-webcast-live-virtualinvestorconferences-com-123500412.html

Company invites individual and institutional investors, as well as advisors and analysts, to attend real-time, interactive presentations on VirtualInvestorConferences.com

NASHVILLE, Tenn., March 11, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- INSBANK (OTCQX:IBTN), based in Nashville, today announced that James H. Rieniets, Jr., President/CEO, and Mark E. Bruchas, Executive Vice President/CFO, will present live at VirtualInvestorConferences.com on March 12th.

(PRNewsfoto/OTC Markets Group (Investor Con) More

DATE: Thursday, March 12th

TIME: 12:00 – 12:30 ET

LINK: https://tinyurl.com/OTCBankVIC-031220

This will be a live, interactive online event where investors are invited to ask the company questions in real-time. If attendees are not able to join the event live on the day of the conference, an archived webcast will also be made available after the event.

It is recommended that investors pre-register and run the online system check to expedite participation and receive event updates.

Learn more about the event at www.virtualinvestorconferences.com.

About INSBANK

Since 2000, INSBANK has offered its clients highly personal services provided by experienced relationship managers and has utilized technologies to deliver those services efficiently and conveniently. TMA Medical Banking is a division of INSBANK which provides banking services to members of the Tennessee Medical Association. INSBANK is owned by InsCorp, Inc., a Tennessee bank holding company. The bank has offices in Nashville at 2106 Crestmoor Road, and in Brentwood at 5614 Franklin Pike Circle. For more information, please visit www.insbanktn.com.

About Virtual Investor Conferences®

Virtual Investor Conferences (VIC) is the leading proprietary investor conference series that provides an interactive forum for publicly-traded companies to meet and present directly with investors.



A real-time solution for investor engagement, Virtual Investor Conferences is part of OTC Market Group's suite of investor relations services specifically designed for more efficient Investor Access. Replicating the look and feel of on-site investor conferences, Virtual Investor Conferences combine leading-edge conferencing and investor communications capabilities with a comprehensive global investor audience network.

Cision More

View original content to download multimedia:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/insbank-to-webcast-live-at-virtualinvestorconferencescom-march-12th-301021312.html

SOURCE VirtualInvestorConferences.com