DATE:  07.04.2019, 09:30:30
TITLE: PR: Roger Ver Joins Monarch as Investor & Advisor, Bitcoin Cash Now Supported In-App
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-roger-ver-joins-monarch-as-investor-advisor-bitcoin-cash-now-supported-in-app/

PR: Roger Ver Joins Monarch as Investor & Advisor, Bitcoin Cash Now Supported In-App

Monarch Wallet Supports Bitcoin Cash (BCH) & Roger Ver Joins as Investor/Advisor

Summary:

Monarch Blockchain Corporation is excited to announce that Roger Ver is joining as an investor and advisor. Monarch Wallet now supports Bitcoin Cash (BCH).

Roger Ver decided to invest in Monarch Blockchain Corporation as well as become an advisor. Monarch Wallet has added Bitcoin Cash (BCH) to its list of over 1900 supported cryptocurrencies.

Content:

Monarch Blockchain Corporation is very excited to announce that Roger Ver has joined Monarch as an investor as well as an advisor. This is truly exciting because Roger Ver has been a proponent of Bitcoin and blockchain technology since 2011. As Monarch continues to build products and increase it’s footprint in the cryptocurrency marketplace, it is a very big deal for someone like Roger to see Monarch and decide to not only become an investor but become a trusted advisor as well.

Roger Ver started his career founding MemoryDealers.com in 1999 while still attending college. This company became a market leader and is still in business today. In 2005 he saw a market opportunity for fiber optic transceivers that are used in networking subsystems and he founded Agilestar.com. The company continues to sell thousands of Agilestar transceivers around the world annually. In 2011, Roger heard about Bitcoin for the first time when the price was still under $1. He saw the importance of this invention and his company MemoryDealers.com became the first in the world to start accepting Bitcoin as a payment option.

Roger Ver has been quoted as saying, “Bitcoin is one of the most important inventions in all of human history. For the first time ever, anyone can send or receive any amount of money with anyone else, anywhere on the planet, conveniently and without restriction. It’s the dawn of a better, more free world.”

As seen in the quote above, Roger is a huge proponent of cryptocurrency and blockchain technology. Roger is one of the first people to start investing in Bitcoin startups. His website reports, “He nearly single handedly funded the entire first generation of Bitcoin and Blockchain businesses including Bitcoin.com, Blockchain.com, Bitpay.com, Kraken.com, purse.io, and many more. ” Roger Ver is the co-founder and an investor in Blockchain.com. He invested in Blockchain.com when it was still being run from a Mac Mini from the bedroom of the founder in his parents’ home.

Roger started with Bitcoin.com in 2014 and continues as the CEO now. His team consists of around 90 full time people and he plans to grow it within the next year. Bitcoin.com is a source for everything Bitcoin related.

Roger is also a big supporter of Bitcoin Cash (BCH). Bitcoin Cash is a hard fork of Bitcoin that happened on August 1, 2017. It increased the block size to 8mb to help scale the underlying technology of Bitcoin. He feels Bitcoin Cash follows the original whitepaper for Bitcoin. This means it’s a peer to peer electronic currency, not just for speculation.

The Monarch Wallet Update now brings support for Bitcoin Cash (BCH). Users can now store, send and receive BCH from the Monarch Wallet on Android and iOS. You can Download the Monarch Wallet Here. The wallet also supports over 1900 cryptocurrencies and has other features like a fiat gateway that lets customers buy and sell Bitcoin (BTC) and Ethereum (ETH) with their credit card or bank account at some of the most competitive rates available. Users can also make most any Erc-20 to Erc-20 token exchange using the decentralized exchange in-app, switch between a hot and cold wallet by simply removing internet access to the device their app is located on, and even earn up to 7.1% APR interest with their crypto. All of this while maintaining control of their own keys and seed.

To stay up to date with Monarch Blockchain Corporation be sure to join their Telegram Community Channel of over 27,300+ members here: https://t.me/MonarchToken.

Contact Email Address

Beadles@monarchtoken.io

Supporting Link

https://monarchtoken.io/#download