DATE:  07.08.2019, 12:20:42
TITLE: Bitcoin investors are being chased by HMRC for tax on their windfalls
URL:   https://www.thesun.co.uk/money/9671589/bitcoin-investors-chased-hmrc-tax/

PEOPLE who buy and sell bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are being warned to check if they need to pay tax on any windfalls they make amid an HMRC crackdown.

The taxman has confirmed it's asked a number of cryptocurrency buying and selling platforms to reveal how much users are making.

1 Bitcoin investors are being warned to check if they need to pay tax on any windfalls they make Credit: Getty - Contributor

Experts say the move follows a similar investigation launched by the USA's Internal Revenue System (IRS).

HMRC wouldn't tell us which firms it's spoken to but CEX.IO told The Sun that it's been contacted by the tax man.

The crypto exchange says it's been asked for the names and addresses of UK residents who've transferred cash using the site between April 6 2017 and April 5 2019 - as well as the value and dates of transfers.

CEX.IO says it's now investigating whether it has to meet the tax man's demands.

How much tax do I have to pay on bitcoin and cryptocurrencies? YOU don't have to pay tax when you buy bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies in the UK, but you might have to pay tax when you come to sell it. Capital gains and income tax might be due Everyone has an annual tax-free capital gains allowance of £12,000, but earn more than this by selling cryptocurrency and tax will be due. Basic rate taxpayers will be charged 10 per cent in capital gains tax, while it's 20 per cent for higher or additional rate taxpayers. And it's worth pointing out that this £12,000 tax-free allowance isn't just for bitcoin and cryptocurrency - it covers any "gain" or profit you make from selling anything from investments to property to art work. If you're trading bitcoin or cryptocurrency so frequently that you're effectively running it as a business, you may need to pay income tax instead of capital gains tax. Income is taxed at 20 per cent for earnings between £12,501 and £50,000, at 40 per cent on £50,001 to £150,000 and at 45 per cent on anything you earn over £150,000. How to pay tax on bitcoin earnings If you're earning more than these limits above you need to declare it to HMRC by completing a self-assessment tax return. You can do this online or by post. The postal deadline for the 2018/19 financial year is October 31 2019 or January 31 2020 if you file online. You can be fined up to £1,000 for failing to file a self-assessment tax return on time, although HMRC says it will make exceptions for those who have made a genuine mistake. Reduce your tax bill But Gary McFarlane, a cryptocurrency expert at investment platform Interactive Investor, points out that there are ways to minimise tax. For example, you can effectively double your tax-free capital gains allowance to £24,000 by giving the assets to your spouse or partner. Mr McFarlane adds that you can also deduct any losses from your gains to lower your bill. If you're unsure about any of this, contact HMRC or speak to a tax advisor.

Platform Coinbase refused to confirm or deny reports that it too has been hauled up by HMRC. Back in February it was ordered following a lengthy court battle to divulge the details of 13,000 customers to the IRS.

Another platform The Sun spoke to called CoinCorner says it's not heard anything from HMRC but adds that it's "aware" other firms have been contacted.

Gary McFarlane, a cryptocurrency expert at investment platform Interactive Investor, says the crackdown will be a "rude awakening" for some.

He said: "Those who hoped to avoid tax by simply not declaring income on the assumption that bitcoin or another crypto is anonymous are in for a rude awakening.

"It might be difficult to track down who owns which bitcoin wallet or who the sender and receiver is of a particular transaction by exploring the blockchain, but if you know the customer's wallet address and transaction history, courtesy of the exchange, then there is no anonymity whatsoever.

"And if the bitcoin price continues to appreciate, as some expect it will to as high as $40,000 next year, then tax liabilities will grow in size commensurately, to such an extent that careful tax planning should be undertaken."

What is Bitcoin? Bitcoin got you baffled? Here's what you really need to know Bitcoin is a virtual currency

It's traded between people without the help of a bank

Every transaction is recorded in a public ledger, or 'blockchain'

Bitcoin is created by mining

Mining involves solving difficult maths problems using computer processors

Bitcoin can be traded anonymously, which makes it a popular way of funding illegal activities

A single Bitcoin is worth over £9,700 as of August 7, 2019, but the value fluctuates wildly

Bitcoin is one of many different cryptocurrencies, but by far the most popular

You don't have to pay tax when you buy bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies in the UK, but you might have to pay capital gains tax when you come to sell it.

And if you're trading bitcoin or cryptocurrency so frequently that you're effectively running it as a business, you may need to pay income tax instead of capital gains tax.

See the box out above for how much you'll likely have to pay.

If you do have tax to pay you'll need to file a self-assessment tax return. You can do this online or by post. The postal deadline for the 2018/19 financial year is October 31 2019 or January 31 2020 if you file online.

But be warned that you can be fined up to £1,000 for failing to file on time, although HMRC says it will make exceptions for those who have made a genuine mistake.

An HMRC spokesperson said: “We want to help people get their tax affairs right and believe that taxpayers want to get it right.

"HMRC regularly gathers data from a range of information sources using powers provided by Parliament.

"Data collected by HMRC is used to improve the integrity of the tax system and to identify those that have failed to declare their gains.”

More on cryptocurrencies CRYPTO CURRENCY Bitcoin slips below £5,000 to 2020 low after Trump travel ban DROPPED A POLLOCK Drug dealer loses £45m Bitcoin fortune after hiding codes in fishing gear BEAKING BAD KFC worker with first-class degree ran £1.8m drugs empire from his loft RAISING THE BAR Bitcoin price jumps to two-month high as experts argue it's 'digital gold' INTERNET WARLORD How a convicted paedo made $722m in the world’s biggest Bitcoin scam 'BASED ON THIN AIR' What is Libra? Facebook’s cryptocurrency explained

Check out out beginner’s guide to Bitcoin – how the cryptocurrency works and how it can make you gain or lose money.

Bitcoin's value has surged following Facebook's plans to launch a cryptocurrency called Libra next year.

The price of bitcoin could also soar as experts say 85 per cent of ALL coins have now been "mined".

Bizarre moment Bitcoin ATM spews out £20 notes at Bond Street Tube Station

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Money team? Email us at money@the-sun.co.uk