DATE:  09.11.2019, 13:42:17
TITLE: Bitcoin Price Will Hit $1 Million After ‘Two More Bubbles’: Bobby Lee
URL:   https://bitcoinist.com/bitcoin-btc-price-usd-1-million-after-two-more-bubbles/

Bitcoin Price Bitcoin Price Will Hit $1 Million After ‘Two More Bubbles’: Bobby Lee

Bobby Lee expects Bitcoin price to reach $1 million in five to ten years after a couple of more bubbles.

Ballet crypto wallet founder, and ex-CEO and founder of one of China’s longest-running crypto exchanged, BTCC, Bobby Lee, put forward some lofty price predictions for Bitcoin at the just concluded Malta AIBC.

Bobby Lee Launches Non-Electronic Crypto Wallet Ballet

In a recent interview, Lee announced his new company, Ballet, which has created a new hardware wallet for bitcoin and crypt0 investors around the world. According to his statement, the decision to launch a physical non-electronic wallet was inspired by the desire to make crypto closer to what people are already familiar with.

Bobby believes the fact that cryptocurrencies in digital form might be an obstacle to adoption and use. With a hardware wallet, everyone in the world would have a safe place to store their coins. The wallet’s primary coin is Bitcoin, although it supports a number of altcoins as well, including ETH, XRP, DOGE, and others.

The wallet even has its own distinctive smell, which serves to stimulate all five senses, but also has an anti-counterfeit purpose.

Lee is Optimistic About the Future of Bitcoin Price

Bobby Lee is also a well-known and vocal Bitcoin supporter, and self-proclaimed BTC maximalist. He believes that Bitcoin price is still only a fraction of the value of what it can achieve, and will, become in years to come. He called it a trillion-dollar asset class, and he expects its price to move further up.

As he explains it, Bitcoin price moves in waves, with each wave being a bubble that takes the coin’s price further up. He predicts that several new waves will arrive in the next several years, likely taking BTC to the $100.000-$200,000 range, and eventually even $1 million.

Lee claims that each new bubble takes Bitcoin price 10-20 times higher than the previous one, and he expects the trend to continue. This is why he supports and advises investing in BTC, and why he created a physical wallet for long-term investments.

What do you think about Bobby Lee’s bullish Bitcoin price predictions? Do you agree with the possibility that BTC might hit $1 million in the next five to ten years? Share your thoughts in the comments, and let us know.

Images via Shutterstock, Medium: QB Exchange, John Chow, and Youtube: AIBC