DATE:  13.06.2019, 09:12:35
TITLE: IVPN Review [2020 Update] – A Decent Service, But Is It Secure?
URL:   https://blokt.com/guides/ivpn-review

In this review, we look at IVPN, a premium service with strong privacy and security features. This VPN will never log your online activity, but, there are some drawbacks to using this product.

IVPN screams authenticity and trust from the second you step foot on its website. IVPN tell you that you can take control of who accesses your data using its VPN. IVPN goes on to say that it never tracks your personal information or logs your activity.

Overall, IVPN seems like a dependable service that should get the job done for most people. Of course, every VPN claims to do all of these things, but you have to peel back pieces of the onion to see if they hold up to their end of the bargain.

Let’s see if IVPN lives up to our expectations.

What is IVPN?

The real name of this Gibraltar based business is Privatus Limited. The service looks to do what every other VPN does, and that is, keep your browsing history and internet surfing safe from prying eyes.

No matter what you are doing online, VPNs are supposed to hide your identity by disguising your IP address and encrypting your internet traffic.

According to the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority, IVPN also allows people to request any information collected from them. When you look at IVPN as a whole, it seems to be more than a VPN provider; it actually cares about individual privacy and protection.

What Makes IVPN Stand Out?

This service boasts a lot of great features, but they come at a price. First, let’s take a look at what makes IVPN stand out amongst the competition.

Multi-device compatibility

Multi-device compatibility Connects to routers

Connects to routers Has an integrated firewall

Has an integrated firewall Uses AES-256 encryption

Uses AES-256 encryption Audited no-logging

Pricing of IVPN

At first glance, you realize that IVPN is not the cheapest service on the market. Its features aren’t going to wow anyone, and there are some pitfalls with this service (we’ll get to that later) but let’s look at the pricing.

Everyone gets a three-day free trial so that you can try it out, plus it offers a seven-day money-back guarantee. So, after the three days, you still get four more days to test it out before fully committing.

Beyond that, it offers a monthly, quarterly, and annual plan.

Here’s a breakdown of the pricing plans:

Monthly – $15.00/mo

– $15.00/mo Quarterly – $13.33/mo = $40.00 billed quarterly

– $13.33/mo = $40.00 billed quarterly Annually – $8.33/mo = $100.00 billed annually

Regardless of which plan you choose; you receive the following benefits:

Seven-day guarantee

Seven-day guarantee Protection on all devices

Protection on all devices 24/7 support

24/7 support Audited no-log service

Audited no-log service All servers

All servers Apps for Windows, macOS, iphone, and Android

Apps for Windows, macOS, iphone, and Android Unlimited bandwidth

Unlimited bandwidth Instant account activation

Best Features of IVPN

If you scour the internet, you’ll find plenty of reviews stating all the positives and negatives of IVPN. The service has a standard list of offerings, but it does a good job of making you feel like you’re protected and safe while using it. We dove deep to find the best features of this VPN.

Top-notch Encryption

To say that IVPN has exceptional encryption standards would be an understatement. It implements AES-256 encryption with 4096-bit RSA keys. With that, new encryption keys are generated every hour to provide additional forward secrecy.

This is top of the line, cream of the crop security that no one can crack. It will also prevent brute-force attacks as well. If your primary concern is security and safety (which it should be), IVPN will not let you down.

You can even use this VPN with one of the many secure browsers out there, like Tor browser. Combining Tor over VPN can provide an even more secure and private browsing experience.

Torrenting is Allowed

If you are looking to download and stream files using torrents, you will have no problem doing that on any of the IVPN servers.

But even so the speeds were not fast enough for us to add it to our best VPN’s for torrenting list.

No Logging (Really!)

We have completed many VPN reviews on so many different services, and they all claim not to log your data, but when you read the fine print, there is always a discrepancy. We can go on record by saying:

IVPN will not, does not, and will never store any connection logs. It does not collect cookies, and it does not sell your information to third parties.

The service collects your username, password, and standard payment information, and it stores it on its private encrypted servers.

IVPN has even gone as far as to have its no-logging claim verified in an independent audited. Cure53 conducted the audit in March 2019, and stated that “IVPN’s privacy statements could be verified as truthful.” More information on the audit can be found here.

For once, there are no sleazy practices or hidden loopholes.

Live Chat

There is something about live chats that make you feel comfortable about buying a product. Knowing you can get almost immediate assistance if you have a problem is reassuring. During our research, we found that the average response time was between three and four minutes. IVPN’s live chat is responsive and helpful.

Anti-Tracking & Anti-Malware Functionality

The IVPN application also comes with a built-in tool called AntiTracker. It allows users to block unwanted ads, helping them to boost browsing speeds and stay better protected from malware. It also blocks data trackers. Companies use data trackers to build a profile of people online based on their browsing behavior and it is a huge privacy concern.

AntiTracker also has an option called ‘Hardcore Mode’ which makes services from Google and Facebook inaccessible and blocks requests to websites owned by them. This feature will be particularly appealing to those who are fed up with the disregard for privacy these companies have been proven to have.

Worst Features of IVPN

Even though the service has plenty of great features worth mentioning, there are some that IVPN would like to keep hidden. Here they are.

Low Server Count

IVPN has 73 servers in 39 locations across 29 countries, which should be more than enough for the vast majority of VPN users. However, this number is still quite small when compared to some other services.

For example Cyberghost, Nordvpn, Expressvpn all have thousands of servers each. This makes a big difference in keeping great speeds and great privacy.

No Netflix

Netflix continues to improve its measures to block VPN providers, and that list of providers includes IVPN. During our research, servers in the US, Canada, UK, and Hong Kong, were unable to stream anything from Netflix.

For VPN’s that work very well with Netflix check out our Best VPN’s for Netflix article.

Slow Speed

While performance might not be as important as safety, you want to keep it in mind. No matter how safe and secure the server is, you won’t be able to enjoy it if it’s incredibly slow.

Luckily, IVPN isn’t too slow, but we did see a significant decrease in download speeds while logged on. Based on speed tests performed online, some people experienced download speeds as low as 17.66 Mbps in Hong Kong and 63.89 Mbps in the Netherlands.

Our Verdict

What are our final thoughts on IVPN? Overall, it has secure encryption with a firewall instead of the kill switch. It never keeps logs on your data, which is something that you cannot say about a lot of VPN services.

It checks a lot of our boxes.

Some of the main issues users have are that you cannot watch Netflix and it has a fairly small number of servers.

We like the privacy, but it still doesn’t make it good enough to make our best vpn list. Nowadays there are just so many great choices that you don’t want to settle for anything average.

Disclosure: Blokt strives to provide transparent, honest reviews, and opinions. The writer of this article is a user of the product(s) or service(s) mentioned in this article and was not influenced by the respective owners. We rarely run ads, but sometimes earn a small commission when you purchase a product or service via a link on our site. Thank you kindly for your support. Read more or donate here.