DATE:  20.04.2020, 11:11:26
TITLE: Bitcoin-Leading Crypto Casino Adds XRP Support to Its Crypto Options
URL:   https://heraldsheets.com/2020/04/20/bitcoin-leading-crypto-casino-adds-xrp-support-crypto-options/









Bitcasino, the Bitcoin-Leading Crypto Casino, has added the third-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, XRP support to the crypto options on its online gaming platform.

XRP is a digital currency distributed by Ripple, the widely known cross-border payment firm. The digital token is known for its scalability, fast and cost-effective transactions.

XRP and RippleNet are the payment tools used by Ripple to serve its over 300 customers across the world. Obviously, as new customers flock in to collaborate with Ripple, in order to leverage the Ripple’s payment tools, it indicates a mainstream adoption in the financial world.

For now, the latest to adopt Ripple’s devised technology is Bitcasino. It will thereby leverage the speed advantages, coupled with efficient cost, over a highly scalable network.

The director at Bitcasino, while expressing his excitement over the new listing said, “It makes us very proud to say that we now have the three most used cryptocurrencies integrated with Bitcasino. XRP ranks third on the list of top virtual currencies by market cap just behind Bitcoin and Ethereum, and it’s something our players have asked for quite some time now.”

Gamers on the online gaming platform can now start exploring the use cases of the Ripple’s digital token XRP. This can be done with a very low minimum deposit of 50 XRP worth $10 at press time. Minimum withdrawal starts at 100 XRP. For now, no transaction fee is attached to XRP deposits and withdrawals on the online gaming platform.

Bitcasino already has Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Tron (TRX), and now Ripple’s XRP to complement the already existing digital asset options.

The cryptocurrency XRP is now opened to new users in the gaming and entertainment environment, who will leverage and test the much talked about use cases.







