DATE:  20.04.2020, 18:04:42
TITLE: Blockchain Bites: ConsenSys Cuts, dForce Doomsday and Bitcoin ATMs Boom
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/blockchain-bites-consensys-cuts-dforce-180442674.html

A weekend hack drained funds from a popular decentralized finance application, Ethereum incubator ConsenSys is laying off about 90 employees and bitcoin ATMs are seeing growth during the coronavirus contagion event.

In a breaking story, ConsenSys has confirmed to CoinDesk that due to coronavirus-led market turmoil, the firm will cut approximately 14 percent of its headcount. The move follows a round of layoffs announced in February, and leaves the firm with just over 550 employees. “All key operational aspects of the business are preserved to ensure the development and service of key products and solutions,” the company said in its statement. Here’s the story:

You’re reading Blockchain Bites, the daily roundup of the most pivotal stories in blockchain and crypto news, and why they’re significant. You can subscribe to this and all of CoinDesk’s newsletters here.

Top Shelf

Related: First Mover: 10 Takeaways for Bitcoin From Negative Oil Prices

DeFi Disaster

Decentralized finance protocol dForce is insolvent following a late-night weekend exploit. While the perpetrator is unknown, the hack exploited a known vulnerability of the ERC-777 standard. Due to the way dForce lending program Lendf.Me’s smart contract is set up, the hacker was able to continually withdraw funds without the program’s balance updating, eventually scoring 99 percent of the assets – more than $25 million – locked within. The Multicoin Capital-backed dForce had been accused of cribbing code from competing application Compound.



The hackers allegedly returned $126,014 back to Lendf.Me with a note saying, “Better luck next time,” according to Chain News.

ConsenSys Cuts

Ethereum incubator ConsenSys is laying off “just over 90” staffers, or about 14 percent of the firm’s headcount. “The global COVID-19 pandemic has deeply impacted the world’s health and livelihood,” a company spokesperson told CoinDesk. “ConsenSys has carefully analyzed its business in relation to what is occurring globally. Like most of its peers, the company is seeing extraordinary uncertainty in the market, with businesses rebalancing priorities and reevaluating timelines.”



Bitcoin Futures

Renaissance Technologies $10 billion Medallion fund is considering jumping into bitcoin futures, recent regulatory filings show. The firm has “permitted” the Medallion fund to enter the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s (CME) cash-settled bitcoin futures market, a financial instrument widely considered to be a proxy for institutional interest in bitcoin.



Related: First Mover: Bitcoin Attracting More Buyers, Even With Market Stuck in ‘Extreme Fear’

Hong Kong’s securities regulator has approved the jurisdiction’s first-ever bitcoin index fund designed for institutional investors. Arrano Capital, the blockchain investment arm of asset management firm Venture Smart Asia, hopes to surpass $100 million in total assets under management through a fund tracking bitcoin prices.

Movers & Shakers

Coinbase has hired former Barclays markets veteran, Brett Tejpaul, to head up institutional coverage at the San Francisco-based crypto exchange. Tejpaul spent 17 years at Barclays in various leadership roles including global head of sales, global head of credit and commodities, and Barclays’ first “head of digital” role, which included managing fintech venture investments.

Calibra, a Facebook subsidiary helping to develop the blockchain-based Libra currency, is looking to hire 50 people in Ireland. (The Irish Times)





20K, 2 Days

Topaz, the Ethereum 2.0 testnet, has garnered nearly 20,000 validators two days after its April 18 debut. “One of the key goals for Topaz is to test the Phase 0 proof-of-stake (PoS) protocol implementation on Ethereum 2.0, to which the network will eventually transfer from the current computationally-intensive proof-of-work consensus mechanism,” Decrypt’s Liam Frost reports.



Cash Doings

Crypto exchanges like Coinbase and Binance.US are reporting a spike in the number of buys and deposits of $1,200, the amount gifted to some U.S. citizens as part of a Federal government’s financial stimulus during the coronavirus-led downturn. “People do seem to have deposited exactly $1,200 into Binance.US in the past couple of days,” a Binance.US representative said, adding that the transactions coincided with the date the checks were cut.

