DATE:  20.04.2020, 12:15:12
TITLE: Join Bityard’s YouTube Recruitment Competition – Win 38888 XRP
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/join-bityards-youtube-recruitment-competition-win-38888-xrp/

Join Bityard’s YouTube Recruitment Competition – Win 38888 XRP

The new Bitcoin and cryptocurrency contracts exchange Bityard launched in early April 2020. To better spread the word, they are holding a contest for YouTube content creators to showcase their reach and earn some money at the same time.

Up to 16,000 USDT in Prizes!

As per the terms and conditions of their YouTube promotional contest , anyone who makes a video promoting their platform under appropriate circumstances, will be entered in to the contest.

The top prize is 38,888 XRP for the YouTuber that gets the most views, comments, and feedback on the video from April 18th to May 18th 2020.

In addition to the first prize winner taking the cake on the XRP prize, there will also be XRP awarded to second and third prize winners, and up to 20 winners of a consolation prize of 38 Tether. Even if you are a novice Youtuber, you will have a great chance to get their bonus.

Are you up to the challenge?

The scale of rewards and winners of these rewards is unprecedented in scale. The sooner you upload a video, the more opportunities you will have to accumulate views and likes!

So, what are you guys waiting for? Go out and make a cool video, upload it, and submit it to Bityard today!

For more information, be sure to visit www.bityard.com.

Contact Email Address

bd@bityard.com

Supporting Link

http://www.bityard.com

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons