DATE:  02.07.2019, 17:30:15
TITLE: PR: CoinDeal Celebrates Premier League Sponsorship Renewal With Token Launch
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-coindeal-celebrates-premier-league-sponsorship-renewal-with-token-launch/

PR: CoinDeal Celebrates Premier League Sponsorship Renewal With Token Launch

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Coindeal’s popularity and number of new users are growing very fast. The exchange will soon be available in several states in the USA and has prepared their own CoinDeal token – CDL. This giveaway is addressed to its 300.000 current and 150.000 new users – internal exchange tokens are waiting to get them completely for free!

CDL Token…

..is an amazing opportunity to start trading for free on one of the premier global exchanges with various benefits. The token will also allow for a higher liquidity within CoinDeal and for more pairings with cryptocurrencies and fiats. Only the first 450.000 users will receive CDL tokens. This giveaway is unique, since most token projects give only 5-7% of their token to the users via bounty programs and other mechanisms, however, CoinDeal has decided to give their users 90 % of all generated tokens. Something of this magnitude has been unprecedented and may very well create a totally new token distribution model.

The CDL token will be the backbone of CoinDeal and that’s why we want to give it to our users for free – these tokens are meant to be used. We didn’t want to create something that has no value and try to make money off of it, like you’ve seen with many ICOs. – Alex Strzesniewski – Business Development Director

If you already have a fully verified account on CoinDeal you just need to login and click the pop-up with information regarding CDL tokens.

Tokens will automatically appear in your wallet. CoinDeal claims that after the giveaway is completed and all tokens have been distributed to users, it will launch a variety of pairings with crypto and fiats. The total supply is 50,000,000 and the token itself has been created on the EOS blockchain and will boast much faster transaction times as well as drastically smaller network fees (as compared to most ERC20 tokens).

How to get free CDL tokens?

1. Register on CoinDeal

2. Go through the verification process (ID and Proof of Address)

3. Click “Get Free Tokens”

4. Check Your Wallet

All interested in the CDL token should act fast, as the number of tokens is capped and the necessary verification level to receive tokens via CoinDeal.com may take up to a few days.

By getting CDL you will receive

● Decreased trading fees

● Customer Support/ Fast Pass priority

● Multi tier token staking system can decrease fees to 0.000%

● Advanced trading features

● Social trading platform access (planned for 2020)

Staking over 150.000 CDL will give you a 0.0000% maker fee and a 0.0250% taker fee. After completed distribution CoinDeal will start buying back CDL tokens on a monthly basis.

You can gain more from this giveaway by sending your friends a referral link that you can copy from your account. You will receive 20% of their trading fees and they will automatically get free tokens after creating a Coindeal account.

Watch the video:

https://www.youtube.com/embed/vF7Rq-tk3lI

Taking care of Premier League friendship – 2nd season of the sponsorship of the Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.

The last season 2018/2019 of cooperation was very successful for Wolves and Coindeal and they discovered many common features, so it’s obvious that they wanted to still work together. The CoinDeal team admits it was one of the biggest and most important marketing adventures in the development of the company.

The numbers speak for themselves. Thanks to the cooperation with Wolves, the media value in the period from the June 2018 to April 2019 amounted to over £50,000,000. Coindeal logo was visible on TV-screens worldwide more than 350,000,000 times and the official CoinDeal advertisement with Wolves players gained also over 1,000,000 of views on YouTube.

There’s nothing better than game day in Wolverhampton – we try to be there as often as we can, regardless, we always make sure to cheer on and follow all games even in the office. – Kajetan Mackowiak – one of the Founders

However, the crypto exchange shows that sponsoring is not just a way of advertising for the crypto business, but something more. Apart from the logo visible on the match shirts and the stadium, Coindeal team made friends with the Wolves team and cheered them on each match even for live. Their relation was also seen on the backstage video of the recording of the joint advertising. As they said at the end of cooperation Wolves were something more than partners – they were like family.

https://www.youtube.com/embed/6FvGS6FSGQo

USA market…

…is the next step in the development of the one of the largest crypto-fiat exchanges in Europe. The company is ready to enter the American market with 14 crypto to crypto markets for a start and the users from the States will have an opportunity to profit from the newest CoinDeal promotion with their free CDL Tokens.

Coindeal was founded over a year ago by three Poles. Rapid growth on the European and Asian markets was just the beginning. At the request of the users, CoinDeal decided to obtain all the necessary licenses and permits to open trading to American citizens.

The US is the land of opportunity, and this may very well be the defining moment in our company’s history. – Alex Strzesniewski – Business Development Director

Follow CoinDeal on Facebook and other social media channels:

https://www.facebook.com/CoinDealOfficial/

https://t.me/coindeal_comt

https://twitter.com/CoinDeal_

https://www.linkedin.com/company/coin…

https://medium.com/@CoinDeal

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.