DATE:  02.07.2019, 09:30:18
TITLE: PR: Pbet IEO Launches on P2PB2B Exchange
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-pbet-ieo-launches-on-p2pb2b-exchange/

PR: Pbet IEO Launches on P2PB2B Exchange

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

PBET’s IEO on P2PB2B has rolled out recently and the token promises immediate demand that eventually translates to higher value and strong ROI for investors.

Cyprus, July 2nd 2019: Great news for aspiring crypto investors looking for a prospective token. Rising crypto gaming platform Pbet will finally launch its IEO on P2PB2B exchange today for its signature token Pbet that holds strong potential for excellent ROI in near future. PBET will launch its IEO on 2 additional exchanges during this month only.

PBET is a state of the art platform that represents the unique unification of physical casinos, players and its own crypto portal to form a unified Omni-channel Crypto gaming platform. It’s aimed to create a seamless convergence between online and physical gaming via its unified gaming portal. The Pbet token is designed to generate a strong synergy in between these two channels whilst integrating cryptocurrency-based instant payment as well as combining partners in a token-based Reward Club.

The Pbet token is fast becoming a sought-after name in the crypto scene which eventually indicates a steady rise in the token value in near future. The token already commands a presence in 20 venues, including both online and offline casinos.

“We are delighted to launch the PBET IEO on our platform. The token shows high potential for growth and is backed by a committed team which is going to bring a revolution in the casino and crypto scene”. PBET’s physical casino management system is running in full bloom in land-based casinos and company is soon to witness a heightened demand. The immediate demand of the token will enhance its value drastically and we are a confident of a bright future of the token. Investors who have been in quest of boosted ROI in crypto sphere can have count on PBET.

“It feels amazing to start our IEO on P2PB2B today. It offers us a fantastic opportunity to roll out our token before the vast crypto community of such a leading exchange. We are positive about rising value of Pbet and we promise strong yields for investors who will put their faith in us. The IEO is for a limited time only and we invite contributors to grab quickly the chance before it’s too late”, added Frederick Vachon, founder of PBET.

PBET is on the mission to enable physical casinos enter the online world with a convenient turnkey, zero fee and revenue-sharing model. It will also help players to play online with instant payments and zero/minimal transaction fees.

The IEO will commence on July 2nd and conclude on July 14, 2019.

For more information or PR Enquiries contact.

PLC. Player Loyalty LTD. (PBET)

info@pbet.io

Supporting Link

https://pbet.io

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.