DATE:  03.05.2019, 11:18:11
TITLE: Bitcoin’s (BTC) April Recovery is Still not a Real Bull Run
URL:   https://globalcoinreport.com/bitcoins-btc-april-recovery-not-real-bull-run/

READ LATER - DOWNLOAD THIS POST AS PDF

Cryptocurrencies are finally back on track, or at least — that is how it appears to be. After a disastrous 2018 which knocked the prices of all coins down by at least 80%, the first few months of 2019 brought stability. However, the coins did not remain inactive for long, and they already started moving back up as early as in mid-February.

February and March were marked by a struggle to grow, and after two months of effort, the growth finally came on April 1st. April is the month that allowed digital currencies to experience a first real surge in well over a year. Not only did the coins’ prices grow, but they managed to remain at the newly-reached levels for over a month now, promising a brighter future to traders and investors.

Bitcoin itself barely managed to grow past $4,000 in February and March — only to see a 22% large growth in April and exceed $5,300 within only two days. The price was trying to find stability after such a large jump, and it took the entire April to reach it. At the time of writing, the BTC price sits at $5,405.95, after 0.31% growth in the past 24 hours.

This situation also allowed Bitcoin to complete its third positive month in a row, thus confirming an important shift that came with 2019. As always, notable events such as this are always causing crypto experts to try and predict what might come next. Crypto enthusiasts themselves are interested in what to expect, while traders and investors need to know it in order to choose the best strategies when dealing with crypto. In other words — there is no lack of demand for predictions and educated guesses.

What to expect from crypto in the future?

While knowing what to expect is greatly appreciated in and out of the crypto world — making accurate predictions is quite hard to do. In fact, when it comes to a highly-volatile and unpredictable crypto industry, it pretty much borders the impossible.

Of course, the overall perspective appears to be optimistic, as the price drop has stopped, and time of slow but steady recovery appears to be at hand. Even so, a lot of experts remain suspicious and cautious, believing that the crypto space is still not done with the bearish trends.

The CEO of crypto hedge fund BitBull Capital, Joe DiPasquale, recently stated that there is still much room for caution in the industry. According to him, Bitcoin has been rising steadily in the past few months. However, this is still not a bull run, and being too relaxed considering the circumstances might easily lead to sudden losses.

The managing director of crypto-to-crypto derivatives platform Amulet, Marouane Garcon, agrees with this. He himself believes that the market has yet to show signs that it can sustain a bull market. Then, there is Tom Lee, Fundstrat Global Advisors’ head and managing partner, who is more optimistic, believing that the crypto winter is over.

While his view is much more optimistic, a lot of investors still have the bearish trend fresh in their memory, and they too remain cautious.

For the latest cryptocurrency news, join our Telegram!

Disclaimer: This article should not be taken as, and is not intended to provide, investment advice. Global Coin Report and/or its affiliates, employees, writers, and subcontractors are cryptocurrency investors and from time to time may or may not have holdings in some of the coins or tokens they cover. Please conduct your own thorough research before investing in any cryptocurrency and read our full disclaimer.

Photo by Skitterphoto from Pexels