DATE:  03.05.2019, 15:44:19
TITLE: Introducing the Bitcoin Magazine Podcast
URL:   https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/introducing-bitcoin-magazine-podcast1

Ring in the new bitcoin halving cycle the right way: with us!

Bitcoin Magazine presents non-stop coverage of Bitcoin’s third Halving with hours of commentary and analysis from Bitcoin 2020 speakers and some of our closest friends.

The Halving (sometimes referred to as “ the Halvening ”) is the predetermined moment when Bitcoin’s block subsidy gets cut in half. The halving of Bitcoin’s block subsidy occurs every 210,000 blocks (approximately every four years) and is a key feature of Bitcoin.

Bitcoin is the world’s most popular digital currency. It’s also the original decentralized and digitally scarce asset. That means no single person, authority or organization can control or create more of it. For these reasons, Bitcoin holds the potential to upend our traditional financial systems, the same systems and practices that have plagued people for centuries.

If you read Bitcoin Magazine, chances are you probably know a lot about this stuff.

Founded by Vitalik Buterin and Mihai Alisie in 2012, Bitcoin Magazine is the original source of news and commentary on Bitcoin, its technology and the people driving this financial revolution.

In this same tradition, we’re bringing Bitcoin Magazine to your ears by launching the Bitcoin Magazine Podcast.

Twice each month, the Bitcoin Magazine Podcast will guide listeners through the major stories shaping the price, philosophy and community around Bitcoin. It will provide a concise summary and analysis of four major stories, then feature a brief interview with experts in the space.

4 Stories, 1 Interview — No More Than 20 Minutes

Presented in a radio news format with a runtime of no more than 20 minutes, the show will provide a short breakdown of what’s happening around Bitcoin, powered by journalism and commentary from the Bitcoin Magazine newsroom.

How to Subscribe

The Bitcoin Magazine Podcast is available on a variety of devices. On an iPhone or iPad, click this link to download a preloaded app called “Podcasts” (look for a purple icon). Once on the series page, tap the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone.

On your Android mobile device, you can listen through Google Play Music, by clicking this link.

You can also listen or subscribe through the Let’s Talk Bitcoin Network or:

You can adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives.