DATE:  03.03.2020, 06:51:44
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Nova Gems Slot Game by Spinomenal
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-nova-gems-slot-game-by-spinomenal/514406

The slot game Nova Gems can be found at Spinomenal Tech Casinos such as BitcoinCasino.io . Spinomenal has been around for some time now, and like many of the smaller casino tech vendors, Spinomenal has been concentrating heavily on slots. The Spinomenal slots games House Edge / RTP is classified for the newer games in their catalog within the paytable. RTP figures can be found on various casino pages for older games, as Spinomenal is affiliated with UK licensed operators and the UKGC license allows this information to be published. As such, we learn that Nova Gems ‘ house edge is 3.6%.

Space is the theme for this slot, with the reels sitting opposite two major planets. The majority of the symbols are gems that make me think this might be some kind of sci-fi mining theme, where we take to the stars to discover new treasures in distant planets.

Bonus features:

Free Spins-If you activate the Free Spins function, a total of 10 Free Spins will be granted. You will receive a respin during the feature every time you land a winning combination. Both winning symbols will remain in place, and you’ll cause another respin if you try to add to those or add any new winning combination. That will happen until no new variations are landed.

Gamble–You get the chance to play the 10 spins before your Free Spins start. You’re going to toss a coin and if it turns gold you’re going to win more free spins and have the chance to play again, winning up to 50 Free Spins. If you lose, you will drop to the lower amount shown on the silver coin and play the game with that number of free spins.

Bonus – When you activate the Bonus game, you’ll have a Bonus wheel spin and you’ll be rewarded with any instant win that you land.

By Now App-You can pay 23 times the bet to jump straight to the Free Spins and Gamble app at any point in the game.

About Spinomenal

Spinomenal has its head office in Ramat Gan, Israel. We operate in Europe, Asia, and Latin America and possess a Curacao license, offering slot machines, poker, blackjack, roulette, and baccarat among many other types of games. Since Spinomenal slots exclusively work with HTML5, all of their games are ready to be played online either with a desktop computer or on a mobile platform, such as a smartphone or tablet. All major browsers, as well as all major handheld devices (Android, iOS, Windows Phone, and BlackBerry OS) are compatible.