DATE:  03.03.2020, 18:12:29
TITLE: Bitcoin: First death cross since September approaching
URL:   https://www.crypto-news-flash.com/bitcoin-first-death-cross-since-september-approaching-correction-imminent/

Bitcoin is showing a large bearish signal, approaching its first death cross since September 2019.

The death cross has been a strong indicator historical in predicting the price of Bitcoin.

The crypto market is currently showing a slight recovery. However, this seems to be driven by the rise in the stock market in recent hours. Both sectors are volatile as the uncertainty caused by the spread of the coronavirus continues. As a result, some analysts have identified a strong bearish signal for Bitcoin by reviewing the technical indicators.

Bitcoin is following general market sentiment and, at the time of publication, is trading at $8.773 with a sideways movement (-0.68 %) in the last 24 hours. On the weekly and monthly charts, the number one cryptocurrency by market capitalization is recording losses of 9.35% and 6.37% respectively.

Bitcoin forms a “death cross”

On January 1, the price of BTC was $6,900, with the whole month being an extremely bullish month for Bitcoin. On February 13, BTC reached its highest level so far this year at $10,300. However, after two flash crashs, BTC is currently in a strong downward trend and has fallen by more than 15% from its annual high. Now, the 20-day average is on the verge of falling below the 50-day moving average. Thus, Bitcoin is on the brink of forming a trend known as the “Death Cross”, which could be the beginning of a new bear market.

The last time Bitcoin showed a “death cross” was in September 2019, as shown in the chart below. The Death Cross marked the beginning of the bear market, which had a negative impact on the cryptocurrency market until the end of the last year.

Although analysts give significant weight to the death cross, in April 2019 its emergence indicated the opposite. It was the beginning of a rebound in the price of the BTC that reached $14,000. As can be seen in the graph above during the months prior to its emergence, the short-term moving average rose above the long-term moving average, forming a “golden cross”. The same trend can be seen in the graph, right at the beginning of 2020.

However, a correction of the price of Bitcoin seems to be imminent as uncertainty over Coronavirus remains and moving average indicators are approaching a cross death scenario. In the short term, the price could drop and stabilize around $6,400, according to some experts.

However, there is no consensus among analysts. On the contrary, CryptoKea is saying that Bitcoin is about to enter a bullish market as indicated by the movement of Bitcoin whales. The analyst establishes a relationship between the low trade volume of the whales with previous bull markets. CryptoKea uses a metric known as Bitcoin Days Destroyed to predict an upswing of the Bitcoin price.

4/ If long-term hodlers would sell larger than usual portions of their holdings, the supply adj. CDD would jump up noticeably. As of now, recent selling seems to be on par with prior bull market sell-offs, especially when comparing it to same periods around the halvings. pic.twitter.com/hTtRAhVMMY — CryptoKea (@CryptoKea) February 29, 2020

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don’t miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?