DATE:  03.03.2020, 01:15:57
TITLE: Here’s What Could Happen to Bitcoin if Stocks Keep Tanking
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/heres-what-could-happen-to-bitcoin-if-stocks-keep-tanking/

Last week was the worst week for the stock market since 2008. [Grow/Acorns] The S&P 500 saw 10% declines and is widely considered the benchmark of what is happening in the overall stock market. Investors even fled safe-haven assets, Bitcoin BUY NOW included.

This decline, coupled with a rough month, left investors reeling with the losses to portfolios. President Donald Trump blamed the coronavirus and called on Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell to take decisive action to stave off losses.

Markets ahead: February blues into March

The validity of the market losses connected to coronavirus The majority of cryptocurrency assets, along with the entire global financial sector have taken a sizeable hit in the last... More is clear. The market responded negatively as demand for crude oil dropped to the lowest levels in a decade with the dangers of international travel.

Bitcoin’s future

Assuming the market continues falling, the Bitcoin faithful may face troubling times ahead. While Bitcoin has made a name for itself as a safe-haven asset, other such assets saw corrections as well. Gold, silver, and others all saw substantial declines in February too.

However, while the market may continue falling, Bitcoin should be protected in some measure from the losses. The coming halving has increased interest in the coin, and the fact that Bitcoin is not connected to the political intrigues of the dollar could provide needed stability.

Finally, should the market continue to decline, a drop in Bitcoin might be short-lived. Often, oversold assets are suddenly seen as cheap, creating a rapid increase in prices from short-term lows.

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.