DATE:  03.03.2020, 18:26:00
TITLE: Marc Faber says coronavirus not behind global market selloff
URL:   https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/expert-view/marc-faber-says-coronavirus-not-behind-global-market-selloff/articleshow/74460636.cms

Yes, you are right. Stocks are up but see how much they declined in the last 10 days. Tesla has dropped 33%; so if it bounces back 10%, it will still be down more than 20%. I do not believe that the coronavirus is causing the sell-off. I think it is a catalyst for a sell-off because the global economy was already weakening a long time before it occurred. In other words, for the last nine months, the economics statistics coming out of Asia have pointed out to a meaningful slowdown in economic activity. In some cases, an absolute decline in many sectors and industries have been going down over the last nine months. Coronavirus is the icing on the cake that really knocked the markets down. The question today is not of course for investors—do you buy or do you use any rebound in markets as a selling opportunity? My take is that investors who are overweight stocks—which means having more than 25% of your money in equity markets—for these people, I would suggest, use the strength to lighten your position because the markets are not cheap by any standards. Sometimes experts tell you, after SARS, the markets went up. I am sorry to say but in 2003, the NASDAQ declined by close to 80% from the high in 2000. So the market was at a totally different junction in the market cycle than it is today. Today all markets are in the sky.It is quite clear. Just look at the Baltic Freight Index, the industrial commodities, the performance of equities that are tied to commodities; the outlook for the economy is from the perspective of the market. In other words, the market is telling you that something is not doing well. Now, some commodities have been going up and some commodities are not so sensitive to the cycle. The agricultural commodities are not so sensitive to the cycle but considering everything that has happened, they are not performing very well but they are undoubtedly cheap. The precious metals were very strong until but last Friday even they collapsed. The correction in precious metals could go on for some time. But coming back to the question, what would you do with your money? I think it is quite okay in the long run to always keep some of your money in precious metals.First of all, I would not overlook the bond market entirely. Let me give you an example. Switzerland issued a 10-year bond at zero interest rates a while ago. In other words, it is a zero coupon bond at 100. So you can buy these bonds and for 10 years, you get no interest and you are betting essentially that interest rates go negative or that the Swiss franc becomes very strong. So these bonds yesterday traded up to 115. In other words, you bought them at 100 and now they are 115. So, although they pay zero interest, if you bought them today at 115 over the next 10 years, you are guaranteed to lose 15%. But some people still buy them because they think losing 15% is not as bad as losing 80%, which investors in Swiss banks have done over the last 20 years. So the market is full of strange things because the market prices have been distorted by the interventions of central banks. Two years ago, Austria issued 100-year bonds; so you buy a bond for 100 years and the interest was 2.25%. The bond was issued at 100 but nobody wanted to buy it but this bond went to over 200. In other words, I would look at bonds as well because over the last 12 months, in long-term US treasuries, you made much more money than in stocks. So my allocation would be 25% in equities and probably around 50% in real estate and then about 25% in precious metals and about 25% in bonds. I know it does not add up but no government budget adds up; so I also take the liberty to have an allocation that does not add up.Again, this is a dilemma for me. The US dollar is overvalued but for now, against emerging market currencies, it is likely to continue to appreciate as you know the Indian rupee has been a little bit weaker recently than some other currencies. The Brazilian Riyal is down 10% this year as well as the South African Rand is down very substantially this year. I do not have the figure right in front of me but that is also in the order of 10%. The currency aspect is important. I have some money outside the US dollar in Swiss Franc and in Euro and especially in Singapore dollar. But for me, the best currency relative to all the other currencies is essentially gold, silver and platinum.