DATE:  03.03.2020, 13:34:31
TITLE: Video Kapil Sharma stars on Ramayan's present, Kapil requested – is Apun Ich Bhagwan
URL:   https://sahiwal.tv/video-kapil-sharma-stars-on-ramayans-show-kapil-asked-is-apun-ich-bhagwan-2/

This week's weekend on The Kapil Sharma Show goes to be fairly particular. The solid of the 90s superhit present Ramayana will develop into Kapil's particular friends. Ramanand Sagar's Ramayana is without doubt one of the most watched TV reveals on TV.

Which remains to be seen on YouTube. Ram, Sita and Laxman implies that when Arun Govil, Deepika Chikhalia and Sunil Lahiri entered the present, there was such an environment of laughter that you just will be unable to cease your laughter by watching these movies.

In this promo video, Kapil Sharma asks Arun Govil, who performed the function of Lord Ram, whether or not you ever felt that Apun is God. With this, whereas questioning Mata Sita i.e. Deepika, Kapil mentioned that when folks would meet you throughout that point, how did you reply their hi-hello. <! –

->

On this, Deepika says that then I used to begin calling everybody Sita Maa. Sony TV has put a promo video on its Twitter deal with, after watching it you will be unable to cease your laughter. Let us present you with this how the star solid of Ramayana takes care of so a few years. Its video and a few particular image..

Ramayana

Laxman-Sunil Lahiri

Let us know that the Ramayana present ran from January 1987 to July 1988 and have become a giant hit. This present of Ramanand Sagar was proven many instances on TV. It turned extremely popular among the many folks. At current, this image is of Laxman-Sunil Lahiri, who is known as by this title until date.

Ramayana

Ram-Arun Govil

The reputation of Ram-Arun Govil was that wherever he went he was welcomed like a god. People would be a part of arms and contact their toes.

Ramayana

Sita – Deepika Chikhani

In the Ramayana, Sita performed the function of Deepika Chikhaliya. After marriage, her title is Deepika Topiwala. Deepika performed the function of Sita in lots of TV reveals. Recently she has been seen within the function of Yami Gautam's mom within the movie Bala.

Ramayana

The most lovely actress

Deepika performed Mata Sita's character very fantastically. She has been probably the most lovely TV actresses of that period. This image reveals this clearly.

Ramayana

Historical present

This is the primary time the complete solid of Ramayana has develop into part of a TV present. After 33 years, watching Ram, Sita and Laxman of this historic TV present will probably be full of pleasure for the followers.