DATE:  29.12.2019, 22:46:45
TITLE: You Can Now Buy Cryptocurrency With Credit Card on Bitcoin.com Exchange
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/you-can-now-buy-cryptocurrency-with-credit-card-on-bitcoin-com-exchange/

You Can Now Buy Cryptocurrency With Credit Card on Bitcoin.com Exchange

Users can now purchase cryptocurrency with a credit or debit card on Bitcoin.com’s premier trading platform via a new partnership with Moonpay. The Bicoin.com Exchange has been rapidly expanding its offerings by adding new SLP tokens.

Also Read: Gocrypto SLP Token Starts Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange

Bitcoin.com Exchange Offers New Fiat Gateway

Bitcoin.com Exchange has announced that it has added the option to buy cryptocurrencies with credit and debit cards to the platform. This milestone has been achieved in partnership with Moonpay, a fiat-crypto payment provider that has already equipped the Bitcoin.com Wallet with the functionality of buying BCH using a credit card.

“We are very excited to partner with Moonpay to offer our users a simple way to purchase cryptocurrencies with fiat money. Bitcoin.com Exchange is dedicated to making it easier for newbies in the industry to get started, so making crypto available via fiat was a logical next step towards achieving our mission,” commented Danish Chaudhry, COO of the Bitcoin.com Exchange.

Bitcoin.com Exchange was launched by Bitcoin.com following a re-branding to represent the vision of an inclusive crypto ecosystem where anyone can gain economic freedom. The exchange, as an addition to the existing financial services, offers new as well as advanced traders a secure space to trade their cryptocurrencies since September this year.

The platform employs institutional-grade encryption, two-factor authentication (2FA) and IP whitelisting to keep user accounts secure at all times. With the addition of the Moonpay gateway to Bitcoin.com Exchange, users will be able to buy all major currencies listed on the exchange with a credit or debit card. Available digital assets include ADA, ATOM, BCH, BTC, EOS, ETC, ETH, LTC, ONT, TRX, USDT, WAVES, XLM, and XRP.

By partnering with Moonpay, Bitcoin.com Exchange is advancing in its mission of making cryptocurrencies more accessible. This was also highlighted by Moonpay co-founder and CTO Victor Faramond who commented: “At Moonpay we believe a user-friendly onboarding experience is essential to make cryptocurrencies accessible to everyone. We’re thrilled to partner with Bitcoin.com Exchange to help users top-up their accounts instantly.”

Going forward, Bitcoin.com Exchange and Moonpay will collaborate to continuously improve the fiat-crypto onboarding experience for users. In the near future, Moonpay and Bitcoin.com Exchange are also planning to add Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) tokens to the fiat gateway.

SLP was created in 2018 as the first token ecosystem living on the Bitcoin Cash Blockchain. Since inception of the protocol, more than 6,000 SLP tokens have been created and the number is growing. As a Bitcoin Cash focused exchange, Bitcoin.com Exchange has recently added several SLP tokens to the platform including FLEX, GOC and ACD. More SLP tokens are scheduled to be listed.

What do you think about Bitcoin.com Exchange adding the ability to buy crypto with a credit or debit card? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.