DATE:  13.04.2019, 08:59:16
TITLE: Get Real-Time and Historical BCH Rates With the Bitcoin.com Price Converter
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/get-real-time-and-historical-bch-rates-with-the-bitcoin-com-price-converter/

Get Real-Time and Historical BCH Rates With the Bitcoin.com Price Converter

With prices of major digital assets constantly in flux, traders need a reliable tool to calculate the value of their crypto holdings in fiat currency. The Price Converter developed by Bitcoin.com is one such instrument that’s accurate and easy to use.

Also read: Exchangewar Lets You Compare Crypto Trading Platforms

Calculator Provides Conversion Data for BCH and BTC

The Price Converter, which is available in the Bitcoin Tools section of the Bitcoin.com portal, supports bitcoin cash (BCH) and bitcoin core (BTC). The calculator gives users real-time rates to convert any amount of BCH or BTC to a preferred world currency. Major fiat currencies are available for reference – U.S. dollar, euro, British pound, Japanese yen, Chinese yuan, Australian dollar, and Hong Kong dollar.

The tool also provides traders with the option to access historical price data for both cryptocurrencies. To use this functionality, simply toggle the real-time button off. Then you’ll be able to set a past date and check the price of the respective coin.

The Price Converter uses exchange rates from the Bitcoin.com Composite Index (BCX), which is a daily historical price index that tracks the value of bitcoin cash and bitcoin core in U.S. dollars. BCX is a composite of multiple constituent indices and historical values are charted.

Bitcoin.com also publishes real-time spot rates for BCH and BTC which are displayed in the top menu of the website. And if you want to be updated about the current prices and market valuations of many more cryptocurrencies, you can monitor the Bitcoin Markets capitalization aggregator.

Under the calculator tool, you’ll find a link to a dedicated Buy Bitcoin page where you can purchase bitcoin cash or bitcoin core with USD or EUR using a Visa or Mastercard credit card.

Have you tried the Bitcoin.com Price Converter? Let us know in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Smartmockups.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can even lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.