DATE:  06.04.2019, 07:06:54
TITLE: Crypto Bear Says Bitcoin (BTC) Poised for Parabolic Bull Run – Plus Ripple and XRP, Ethereum, Tron, EOS, Litecoin, Cardano, Dash, IOTA
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2019/04/06/crypto-bear-says-bitcoin-btc-poised-for-parabolic-bull-run-plus-ripple-and-xrp-ethereum-tron-eos-litecoin-cardano-dash-iota/

‎‎‎ ‏‏‎

From a big Bitcoin prediction to the popularity of EOS, Tron and Ethereum, here’s a look at some of the stories breaking in the world of crypto.

Bitcoin

A veteran technical trader who accurately predicted the crash of Bitcoin in January of 2018 has turned bullish, and now says BTC looks like it may be gearing up for a new parabolic bull run.

According to a viral tweet from Peter Brandt, Bitcoin’s chart appears to be rhyming with its pattern from 2014 to 2015, before the start of BTC’s eventual rise to nearly $20,000.

Either from Dec '18 low or from retest of same (circa analog dbl bottom in 2015) it would not surprise me if $BTC enters a new parabolic phase. $btcusd pic.twitter.com/XV89Qz7P4n — Peter Brandt (@PeterLBrandt) April 5, 2019

In the short term, Brant says BTC could form a double bottom by revisiting its low of $3,122 from December of last year.

EOS, Tron, Ethereum

The latest numbers show the amount of money moving through decentralized apps (DApps) on EOS is greater than the amounts flowing through DApps built on both Tron and Ethereum.

New numbers from DappReview show 135,500 users spent more than $17.1 million on EOS DApps in the last 24 hours.

Meanwhile, 68,700 users spent $9.4 million on the Tron network, and 12,900 users spent more than $4.7 million on Ethereum.

Ripple and XRP

Ripple’s global hiring spree continues. The San Francisco startup is now looking to hire an account manager in New York.

Ripple has a total of 53 open positions, from RippleNet engineers to a new director of marketing for its XRP-based fundraising arm Xpring.

Litecoin

A new platform designed to power instant swaps between Bitcoin and Litecoin is now up and running in an alpha release. Boltz utilizes the Lightning Network to let users swap BTC and LTC without the need for a crypto exchange.

You can check out more on how it works here.

We are excited to announce the alpha release of Boltz, a trust minimized, account-free exchange built on top of the lightning network. Check out our blog for more info (https://t.co/0ykR8qqPdx) or try a swap on https://t.co/ChAqbN1t98 PS: already loops in and out @lightning — Boltz (@Boltzhq) April 4, 2019

Cardano

A new interview with Cardano creator Charles Hoskinson is now online. The interview with Kennedy Financial covers the crypto ecosystem, hardware wallets, and why Hoskinson is traveling around the world to talk about blockchain technology.

﻿

IOTA

The team at IOTA has released part 5 of an overview on the Qubic Computation Model. The protocol aims to bring distributed computing and smart contracts to the platform.

Explaining the Qubic Computation Model: Part 5 out now on the bloghttps://t.co/GBap5zxlXg#IOTA #Qubic — IOTA (@iotatoken) April 5, 2019

Dash

A new video highlights crypto adoption in Venezuela. Dash News presenter Isabel Barrios visits Papa John’s Pizza in Caracas, and pays with Dash digital cash.

﻿

ADVERTISEMENT Follow us on Facebook Join us on Telegram Follow us on Twitter