DATE:  06.04.2019, 13:00:05
TITLE: Ethereum’s Vitalik Buterin lays into Deconomy for hosting Bitcoin SV “shills”
URL:   https://coinrivet.com/ethereums-vitalik-buterin-lays-into-deconomy-for-hosting-bitcoin-sv-shills/

Ethereum co-creator Vitalik Buterin has slammed the organisers of the Deconomy conference for giving a platform to Bitcoin SV “shills”.

Also of interest: Vitalik Buterin tells BCH community to ostracise Craig Wright over coin changes

The event took place this week in Seoul, South Korea. It included a discussion panel involving various Bitcoin SV proponents. One of them, Ella Qiang, retweeted a photo of herself and others “being good” during a talk by Buterin.

Being good student at V's scaling university https://t.co/CGKcpHBihx — 1ella (@ellaqiang9) April 5, 2019

Buterin, meanwhile, had this to say.

Kinda disappointed @Deconomy_forum is again giving airtime to BSV shills, this time a panel of them. At least there's some hilarious quotes… my favorite was that Segwit is bad because separating signatures from transactions "has legal ramifications" pic.twitter.com/3M2qWUObmr — Vitalik Non-giver of Ether (@VitalikButerin) April 5, 2019

This, somewhat predictably, drew a flurry of responses, some of which were supportive, some of which were critical.

Yeah, disappointing. There's a general click-bait attitude in the selection of topics and sessions. I guess this kind of drama sells tickets, but it imposes a cost for the entire industry — Andreas M. Antonopoulos (@aantonop) April 5, 2019

These ‘bsv shills’ are simply people who are passionate to see Bitcoin succeed, and are smart and brave enough to stand for the fact that scaling on chain is the right strategy, even against all the hate. The reason you dislike a functioning Bitcoin is because it threatens Eth. — Satoshi’s Disciple (₿) (@Satoshis_D) April 5, 2019

The social media fireworks built on a feisty Deconomy 2018, when a video of Buterin calling alleged Bitcoin creator Craig Wright a fraud went viral in the crypto community.

During a panel discussion, entitled ‘Bitcoin, Controversy over Principle’, featuring Roger Ver, Samson Mow, and Wright, a high profile supporter of Bitcoin Cash, Buterin said: “Given that he (Wright) makes so many non-sequiturs and mistakes, why is this fraud allowed to speak at this conference?”