DATE:  11.09.2019, 11:46:42
TITLE: Bitcoin’s Pizza Topping Goes Full Pie With Domino’s €100,000 BTC Giveaway
URL:   https://www.ccn.com/dominos-pizza-bitcoin-giveaway/

Dominos France has announced a giveaway competition in which one lucky pizza/crypto aficionado will win €100,000. The catch? Prospective winners have to choose between a denomination in bitcoin or fiat … On second thoughts, it’s a pretty easy choice.

The competition, which is being held to celebrate 30 years of Dominos France, started on September 4 and will run to October 6. Shockingly, all participants have to do to be in for a slice of the action, is buy pizza.

Most surprising perhaps is the fact that -until now – no major pizza chains have capitalized on bitcoin’s widely-revered connection with the cheesy pies.

BTC for Pizza

Pizza holds a warm gooey place in many crypto enthusiast’s hearts. Notably, the cheesy, bready stuff was the first recorded item that bitcoin was ever transacted for; kick-starting a payments revolution.

In 2010, at the very start of bitcoin’s infancy, a crypto programmer called Laszlo Hanyecz reached out on a Bitcointalk forum to anyone who was willing to trade him pizza for 10,000 BTC.

“I like having leftover pizza to nibble on later,” Said Hanyecz “You can make the pizza yourself and bring it to my house or order it for me from a delivery place, but what I’m aiming for is getting food delivered in exchange for bitcoins where I don’t have to order or prepare it myself.”

When no-one responded, queried whether 10,000 BTC was too stingy an amount.

Finally, the programmer was granted his wish. Some kind soul delivered him two Papa John’s pies for the measly price of 10,000 BTC; which at the time was around $41.

Was it worth it?

Of course, the thick layer of irony isn’t lost on many. Today the infamous pizzas are worth approximately $101,000,000. Just in case Hanyecz forgets the fortune he could have had today, one thoughtful being set up a Twitter dedicated to tracking the pizzas’ burgeoning price point.

Nonetheless, years on, pizza day – May 22- stands immortalized as the date in which the BTC’s pioneering transaction was made. Bitcoin and pizza lovers all over the world celebrate by raising a slice of pie in commemoration. The special occasion even made it into the recent 60 minutes segment on bitcoin, in which Hanyecz relived the now fateful day.

Ironically, with Domino’s latest promotion, this story has found a new conclusion. €100,000 for buying a pizza. It’s not quite $100 million, but it’s a start.