DATE:  04.11.2019, 18:30:01
TITLE: The North American Bitcoin Conference Returns
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/the-north-american-bitcoin-conference-returns/

The North American Bitcoin Conference Returns

TNABC and Miami Blockchain Week return to kick off 2020.

On the 16th and 17th of January, 2020, pioneers of the global Bitcoin and blockchain community will converge in Miami for a historical conference, continuing to propel cryptocurrency from niche to mainstream. Now in its seventh year, The North American Bitcoin Conference is the longest-running and most attended finance conference for the Bitcoin, blockchain and cryptocurrency industries with over 20,000 attendees since 2013. Additionally, a key focus of the 2020 conference will be a focus on enterprise, unpacking the new and exciting world of business adoption and commercial blockchain potential.

(The 7th Annual North American Bitcoin Conference), as a part of the World Blockchain Forum, will return to sunny Miami with a lineup of over 60 world-class presenters, including technology veterans, and founders of companies transforming finance and innovation across the globe. Past events have been featured in the Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Forbes, Fortune.com, Bloomberg, and other mainstream media outlets.

The two-day conference has announced first partnerships for 2020 with The Bitcoin Center, Tradestation and Bitcoin.com. As well as curated networking, speaker Q&A sessions and a focus on Miami as the historical LATAM-US hub of crypto, TNABC will maintain themes of investment, blockchain enterprise, legal implications and regulation, and how decentralization is disrupting international supply chains.

In addition to the two day conference, The North American Bitcoin Conference celebrates the return of Miami Blockchain Week with multiple satellite events before and after the conference, including hackathons, additional networking events, education days, and after-parties.

The first 2020 speakers have been announced and include:

Nick Spanos, Crypto pioneer

Veronica McGregor, Head of Legal at Shapeshift.io

Matthew Roszak, Co-Founder, Bloq

Charlie Shrem, Bitcoin pioneer

Maja Vujinovic, CEO at OGroup

Marco Santori, President of Blockchain.com

Alexia Hefti, Blockchain Tax Lead at Deloitte

Keynote’s founder Moe Levin says, “This conference comes at a pivotal time as innovation forces us all to make wise investing decisions. With an influx of new opportunities and new applications of the blockchain, Keynote wants to give our attendees the opportunity to meet the people and product they’ll be investing in and get a better understanding of the fast-expanding blockchain ecosystem. We’re also excited for our attendees to meet and interact with our sponsors and exhibitors, who are the greatest blockchain companies active at the moment.”

Tickets are available now at (btcmiami.com/tickets)

For Sponsorship and Exhibiting information please email amy@keynote.ae

About Keynote

Keynote was launched in 2012 by blockchain strategist Moe Levin. Further information and details about Keynote can be found at keynote.ae

Supporting Link

https://www.btcmiami.com