DATE:  14.02.2020, 15:00:29
TITLE: Pirate Chain Coin Now Available for Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange, Joins New Alliance
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pirate-chain-bitcoin-com-exchange/

Pirate Chain Coin Now Available for Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange, Joins New Alliance

Pirate Chain (ARRR) is a privacy-focused cryptocurrency with non-optional, private-only addresses and transactions. This coin has is now available for trading to users of Bitcoin.com Exchange, soon after the team behind it joined the Blockchain Privacy, Security & Adoption Alliance.

Also Read: Users of Bitcoin.com Exchange Can Win Rewards Worth $25,000 in Gocrypto Trading Competition

ARRR Now Available for Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange

Bitcoin.com Exchange has added support for trading Pirate Chain (ARRR), a privacy-focused cryptocurrency with non-optional, private-only addresses and transactions that are shielded by ZK-Snarks technology. The developers of the coin state that they aim to create the most secure and anonymous cryptocurrency, and explain that ARRR is secured by Bitcoin and Komodo’s hashrates through a Delayed Proof-of-Work algorithm.

Pirate Chain’s Captain Draeth commented on the Bitcoin.com Exchange listing: “It is difficult to find a large exchange that is willing to list privacy coins, especially Pirate Chain since we are one of, if not the most, private coin in existence. On top of that, most of the larger exchanges require some sort of company or corporation behind it, which goes against the ethos of Pirate Chain and crypto in general. Being able to list on this exchange shows that there are larger exchanges willing to list coins that represent financial freedom, because that’s exactly what Pirate Chain stands for.”

Bitcoin.com Exchange was launched in early September 2019 as an easy-to-use platform with world-class security and a powerful trading engine. The platform employs institutional-grade encryption, two-factor authentication (2FA) and IP whitelisting to keep user accounts secure at all times. Available digital assets include ADA, ATOM, BCH, BTC, EOS, ETC, ETH, LTC, ONT, TRX, USDT, WAVES, XLM and XRP.

To help introduce Pirate Chain to its users, Bitcoin.com Exchange is hosting a trading competition and a draw where users can win prizes in ARRR and BCH. For the exact details of the terms and conditions check out this page.

Pirate Chain Joins Blockchain Privacy, Security & Adoption Alliance

The Pirate Chain team has recently announced a partnership to form the Blockchain Privacy, Security & Adoption Alliance (BPSAA). In addition to Pirate Chain, current members of the BPSAA include Turtle Network, Sentinel and Ether-1. The alliance aims to lead by example on innovation and cooperation and become a vocal champion for the blockchain industry.

Turtle Network is a highly scalable smart contract platform with a decentralized exchange (DEX) featuring multi-currency secure wallets for all activities. Ether-1 is a community-governed, decentralized, content and web-hosting network. Sentinel is a multi-protocol ecosystem focused on equal access to a marketplace of distributed services and resources.

The BPSAA says it will continue to expand its foundation by onboarding projects with strong vision and real-life usage potential. Interested projects need to contact the alliance and applications will be reviewed on a periodic basis.

According to BPSAA founder Pirate Chain Captain Draeth: “All members hold the belief that cross-platform interoperability between projects will create value and exciting innovative cross-chain fintech solutions. Each member provides a unique role and has their specialization within the alliance. This creates the foundation for a well-rounded alliance with a wide range of tools and skillsets. Together the alliance aims to set new standards for collaboration and innovation in the blockchain industry.”

Benefits to BPSAA members include a common forum of developers to help provide technical and integration assistance, a group think tank to cultivate ideas for new solutions, a united co-marketing effort that increases the visibility for all alliance members, and the right to vote on new alliance member applicants.

What do you think about Bitcoin.com Exchange listing pirate chain for trading? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.