DATE:  14.03.2020, 13:58:25
TITLE: President Trump Says He’s Taken Coronavirus Test, Applauds Wall Street, Targets Fed: Watch
URL:   https://www.thestreet.com/video/watch-trump-took-coronavirus-test-extends-travel-ban

After declaring a national emergency late in the trading day Friday, President Donald Trump surprised reporters by attending the White House coronavirus task force Saturday press conference.

President Trump stressed that the White House is using the full power of the federal government to combat the spread of the coronavirus.

“And that's what we've been doing,” Trump added.

Trump declared a national emergency on Friday, giving FEMA up to $50 billion in resources. The White House expects 1.4 million coronavirus tests to be available by next week and announced numerous measures being taken by corporate America, including Target TGT and Walmart WMT.

In addition, the administration announced a halt in interest payments paid on federal student loans.

Last night, the House and the White House reached an agreement on a bipartisan coronavirus bill to provide free testing among other provisions.

In Saturday’s White House press conference, Trump provided a few updates including revealing that he has been tested for the coronavirus, though results are pending. All reporters and officials in attendance for Saturday’s testing had their temperatures taken by White House medical staff.

In response to questioning on reports the White House is considering extending the European travel ban to the United Kingdom and Ireland, Trump said the administration is “seriously considering it.” Vice President Mike Pence later confirmed that the ban would go into effect at 12 a.m. ET Monday.

On the subject of domestic travel, Trump said, “If you don’t have to travel (domestically), I wouldn’t do it.”

Trump added that the administration is considering domestic travel restrictions in “some areas.”

Trump also applauded Wall Street’s strong market close Friday, crediting his Rose Garden coronavirus address. "I was honored to see the stock market set the record...that was something to see...maybe we do one five times a day,” Trump said.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished up 1,950 points, or 9.2%, to 23,151, the S&P 500 rose 9.21% and the Nasdaq gained 9.34% Friday.

The S&P remains in a bear market, 24% off its all-time high.

Pence said the White House task force will provide further updates at 5 p.m. ET Sunday.

Catch up on the Latest Videos on TheStreet!