DATE:  14.03.2020, 11:29:00
TITLE: Prevention is better than cure: Kohli urges fans to be vigilant, take precautionary measures in coronavirus fight
URL:   https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/prevention-is-better-than-cure-kohli-urges-fans-to-be-vigilant-take-precautionary-measures-in-coronavirus-fight/articleshow/74623130.cms

Let's stay strong and fight the #COVID19 outbreak by taking all precautionary measures. Stay safe, be vigilant and… https://t.co/TCveQZ2WSG — Virat Kohli (@imVkohli) 1584158050000

Bust The Myth Bubble: Sesame Oil, Alcohol Sprays Can't Prevent Coronavirus of 11 Next Prev







Play Slideshow Rumour Has It 9 Mar, 2020 A lot of what you hear or read about the coronavirus may be myths. WHO data busts a few common misconceptions. A lot of what you hear or read about the coronavirus may be myths. WHO data busts a few common misconceptions. Next Coronavirus Vaccination A Myth 9 Mar, 2020 Myth: Pneumonia vaccines will protect you against coronavirus. Reality: Vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and Haemophilus influenza type B (Hib) vaccine, do not provide protection against coronavirus. The virus is so new and different that it needs its own vaccine. Researchers are trying to develop a vaccine against 2019-nCoV, and WHO is supporting their efforts. However, while they are not effective against 2019-nCoV, vaccination against respiratory illnesses is highly recommended to protect your health. Myth: Pneumonia vaccines will protect you against coronavirus. Reality: Vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and Haemophilus influenza type B (Hib) vaccine, do not provide protection against coronavirus. The virus is so new and different that it needs its own vaccine. Researchers are trying to develop a vaccine against 2019-nCoV, and WHO is supporting their efforts. However, while they are not effective against 2019-nCoV, vaccination against respiratory illnesses is highly recommended to protect your health. Next What Kills Coronavirus? 9 Mar, 2020 Myth: Ultraviolet disinfection lamp can kill the coronavirus. Reality: UV lamps should not be used to sterilise hands or other areas of skin. Far from killing the virus, the UV radiation can actually cause skin irritation. Myth: Ultraviolet disinfection lamp can kill the coronavirus. Reality: UV lamps should not be used to sterilise hands or other areas of skin. Far from killing the virus, the UV radiation can actually cause skin irritation. Next Corona Stays Hidden 9 Mar, 2020 Myth: Thermal scanners can help detect infected people. Reality: Thermal scanners are effective in detecting people who have developed a fever due to the coronavirus infection. However, they cannot detect people who are infected but are not yet sick with the fever. This is because it takes between two and 10 days before people who are infected become sick and develop a fever. Myth: Thermal scanners can help detect infected people. Reality: Thermal scanners are effective in detecting people who have developed a fever due to the coronavirus infection. However, they cannot detect people who are infected but are not yet sick with the fever. This is because it takes between two and 10 days before people who are infected become sick and develop a fever. Next Only On The Surface 9 Mar, 2020 Myth: Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over the body kill the coronavirus. Reality: Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. In fact, spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes (ie eyes, mouth). Be aware that both alcohol and chlorine can be used to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used under appropriate recommendations. Myth: Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over the body kill the coronavirus. Reality: Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. In fact, spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes (ie eyes, mouth). Be aware that both alcohol and chlorine can be used to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used under appropriate recommendations. Next

NEW DELHI: India captain Virat Kohli has urged his countrymen to take all necessary precautions in the wake of novel coronavirus pandemic, which has claimed lives of over 4000 people across the globe.In India, there has been two deaths along with 80 plus positive COVID 19 cases which has prompted suspension of all sporting activities including an ODI series against South Africa and the cash-rich Indian Premier League "Let's stay strong and fight the #COVID19 outbreak by taking all precautionary measures. Stay safe, be vigilant and most importantly remember, prevention is better than cure. Please take care everyone," Kohli tweeted.On Friday, the Indian captain was seen coming out of the Lucknow airport wearing black face mask.The Indian team were supposed to have a training session on Saturday but in the evening, the BCCI and South Africa mutually agreed to call off the series after visiting team players made it clear that they wanted to return home at the earliest.