DATE:  20.04.2019, 09:45:25
TITLE: BCH Merchant App Allows Businesses to Accept Crypto Payments in Store
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bch-merchant-app-allows-businesses-to-accept-crypto-payments-in-store/

BCH Merchant App Allows Businesses to Accept Crypto Payments in Store

Cryptocurrency gives companies another payment option to offer their customers that yields a host of benefits. In the case of bitcoin cash, crypto payments are an easy, fast and cheap option, thanks to ultra-low onchain fees. BCH Merchant is a Point of Sale app that allows businesses to accept bitcoin cash.

Also read: Crypto-Friendly Banking Platform Cashaa Offers Personal and Business Accounts

Free App Helps Expand Payment Options

BCH Merchant is a free mobile application developed by Bitcoin.com which is available in the Google Play store. With the simple to use POS software, merchants can accept bitcoin cash payments at any retail location.

The app is very easy to set up as no account or registration is needed. To start receiving BCH payments, all you have to provide is a public key or an extended public key linked to your cryptocurrency wallet.

Permissions are limited to the camera, used to scan QR codes, network connections, and the Near Field Communication (NFC) functionality. BCH Merchant is QR code payment compatible with all bitcoin cash wallets.

Amounts can be displayed in local currency and the application supports over 150 fiat currencies. Thanks to the design of the Bitcoin Cash network, the fee paid by customers is very low – less than $0.01 – and is charged independently of the amount due.

BCH Merchant offers instant and safe payments. The app is also employee-friendly, with all settings accessible only through a PIN code.

If you or your business need a simple and secure way to send and receive cryptocurrency, you can also download and install the Bitcoin.com Wallet – over 3.9 million have been created already. The wallet is available for mobile and desktop devices and all major operating systems including iOS, Android, Windows, and Linux.

Are you offering your customers a crypto payment option and what services are you using? Let us know in the comments section bellow.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.