DATE:  20.04.2019, 14:40:10
TITLE: These Next-Generation Mining Rigs Pack a Ton of Hashpower
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/these-next-generation-mining-rigs-pack-a-ton-of-hashpower/

These Next-Generation Mining Rigs Pack a Ton of Hashpower

Last week, mining manufacturer Bitmain launched its latest Antminer 17 series. Now Canaan Creative has published its own device specifications and pricing for the new Avalonminer 10 series that process between 31-33 trillion hashes per second (TH/s). In addition to Canaan’s latest miners, two more China-based companies are releasing next-generation miners this summer that mine at maximum hashrates between 46-70TH/s.

Also read: Statistics Show Bitcoin Cash Is a Strong Contender After Crypto Winter

Avalonminer 10 Series: 31-33 Trillion Hashes per Second

Bitcoin mining machines that process the SHA256 consensus algorithm are growing ever more efficient. Last year, a number of newly improved mining rigs were released by various manufacturers and this year there’s a bunch more on the horizon. News.Bitcoin.com recently reported on Bitmain and Canaan’s new miners but Canaan hadn’t published the latest Avalonminer 10 specifications or prices. The new Avalonminer 10 series documentation is now available on the company’s website and interested buyers can sign up for the waiting list.

There are two models available on Canaan’s store – the Avalonminer 1041 and the 1041F. Interestingly, even though one unit is a bit more effective than the other, they are both listed for the same price at $1,057 per mining rig. The 1041 unit processes the SHA256 algorithm at 31TH/s and power efficiency of 56 joules per terahash (J/TH). Another thing to note is that the 10 series models both use 16nm chipsets rather than the next-generation 10nm or 7nm chips used by competitors.

In addition to the chips used, the 1041 machine puts out 70 decibels (dB) of sound and weighs around 8kg. The more effective Avalonminer model, the 1041F, processes 33.5TH/s according to the 1041F specifications page. Canaan says the 1041F comes with top tier power efficiency by giving owners 63J/TH. The machine is a touch lighter at 6kg and also puts out 70db sound which Canaan calls a “traditional” output. Each machine has a 180-day warranty from when the mining rigs are received.

Strongu’s U8 Model: 46 Trillion Hashes per Second

In addition to the latest mining rigs being sold in 2019, the top three mining giants Ebang, Bitmain and Canaan have smaller competitors trying to make strides in the industry. Two models being sold this summer aim to give miners higher hashrate for their money. The first mining rig expected to go on sale this July is Strongu Mining’s STU-8 (also known as the U8) which claims to pack a maximum hashrate of 46TH/s. The model’s power consumption takes about 2100W off the wall according to specifications. A few vendors online expect the U8 model to sell between $1,520-1,883 per unit. The U8 is a bit louder too as the unit’s fan has a noise level of around 76dB. The U8 model will be sold in pre-sale batches as well (25 units per order) according to the Strongu website. However, the China-based firm does not disclose what type of chipset is used for the latest U8 model.

Microbt Whatsminer M20S: 70 Trillion Hashes per Second

Another mining rig expected this summer stems from another company headquartered in China. The manufacturer Microbt claims the new Whatsminer M20S will process a maximum hashrate of around 70TH/s. The machine has a power consumption of around 3360W and has a noise level of around 75dB. Microbt plans to sell the mining rig in August and the rig’s official distributor Pangolin is selling each unit for $2,349. The Pangolin website does disclose the type of chip used in the new M20S models, revealing it to be a 12nm TSMC made semiconductor.

Despite the crypto winter, bitcoin mining manufacturers have continued to develop faster models with next-generation chips. Both BTC and BCH hashrates have risen significantly in 2019 and global data shows the mining economy is still booming. It’s likely that next-generation machines will relentlessly push the envelope within this industry. With the Microbt Whatsminer M20S, Strongu’s U8, and the new Antminer 17s from Bitmain producing hashrates of over 50 trillion hashes per second, mining competitiveness is guaranteed to increase. Soon enough, mining participants and facilities will find that low hashrate-producing mining rigs will be far less efficient to the point of not being worthwhile to run, unless they’re combined in great numbers.

What do you think about 2019’s next-generation miners from Canaan, Microbt, and Strongu? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the mentioned companies, software or any of the affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com or the author is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article. This editorial review is for informational purposes only.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Canaan Creative, Microbt, Asicminervalue.com, and Strongu.

At news.Bitcoin.com all comments containing links are automatically held up for moderation in the Disqus system. That means an editor has to take a look at the comment to approve it. This is due to the many, repetitive, spam and scam links people post under our articles. We do not censor any comment content based on politics or personal opinions. So, please be patient. Your comment will be published.