DATE:  19.05.2019, 13:42:46
TITLE: Cyberghost Is a VPN Service You Can Pay For With Bitcoin Cash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/cyberghost-is-a-vpn-service-you-can-pay-for-with-bitcoin-cash/

Cyberghost Is a VPN Service You Can Pay For With Bitcoin Cash

Privacy in the online space is quite compromised these days and anyone who would like to protect their own may consider using a VPN service. There are many platforms on the market and some are catering to the crypto community. Cyberghost VPN is one of them and it takes bitcoin cash (BCH).

Also read: Vaulty Aggregates All Your Cryptocurrency Addresses Using a Single Link

The Crypto-Friendly VPN Provider Has 3,700 Servers in 60 Countries

Beside the need to safeguard personal data, which is often exposed in industrialized societies, there’s also the issue with restricted access to information, typical for nations under authoritarian regimes with heavy state-sponsored censorship programs. Other barriers include various geolocation restrictions limiting the availability of certain services in some markets.

VPN (virtual private network) providers help you overcome the challenges on these fronts and their services enjoy a growing popularity in the expanding crypto space. At this stage, not all of them accept digital currency payments, which add another layer of security, but there are some notable exceptions. These include Express VPN and Private Internet Access.

Cyberghost is another crypto-friendly platform, which has been credited for its simple to use software. It is a good choice for beginners. Cyberghost shields your private data and protects your online identity from hacking attacks and other encroachment attempts.

The service helps you stay safe on public wi-fi networks and hides your real IP address when surfing from your home. It uses encryption and maintains a no logs policy. The VPN also facilitates more secure financial transactions including online banking.

Another strong side of Cyberghost is that it has almost 3,700 servers in over 60 countries and offers unlimited bandwidth and traffic. Its major advantage for cryptocurrency users is the option to pay with digital coins for its services. An integration with Bitpay allows you to spend your bitcoin cash for one of its subscription plans which currently start at $2.75 a month.

If you are looking for other products and services to buy with your BCH, check out Bitcoin.com’s Spend Bitcoin Cash page. The online store allows you to shop for apparel and bitcoin branded accessories, purchase gift cards for major brands and retailers or buy a hardware wallet with discount.

Are you currently using a VPN service and how do you pay for it? Share the details in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Cyberghost.

Are you looking for a secure way to buy Bitcoin online? Start by downloading your free Bitcoin wallet from us and then head over to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can easily buy BCH and BTC.