DATE:  25.09.2019, 08:55:46
TITLE: Binance USD Illiquidity Stamps Wild $1,800 Bitcoin Price
URL:   https://www.ccn.com/bitcoin-crash-1800-binance-stablecoin-illiquidity/

The price of Bitcoin (BTC) collapsed in extreme fashion late last night. Some individuals were able to capitalize on the move more so than others — with the world’s biggest cryptocurrency available at $1,800 per coin with Binance’s own stablecoin, Binance USD (BUSD).

BUSD currently is ranked 2064 by market capitalization and has a small 24-hour trading volume of $743,509 — or only 74.49 BTC — according to CoinMarketCap. It is this low liquidity that may have been responsible for the extreme dump down to the absurdly low level of $1800 per Bitcoin.

BUSD is a new stablecoin from a collaboration of Binance and Paxos.

Binance USD Illiquidity: Not Worth Mentioning?

At the time of this writing, neither Binance nor CEO Changpeng ‘CZ’ Zhao have responded to the wild price action.

However, Zhao did take to Twitter recently to talk about Binance Futures’ trading, its “demand and fast-up take,” and its ability to handle “the large volatility with no significant issues.”

Binance Coin Plunges

Like many altcoins, Binance Coin has been harshly affected by Bitcoin’s price collapse.

The exchange’s in-house cryptocurrency smashed straight down through any support it might have had at $17.50 USDT and appears to be headed down to the next Fibonacci retracement level near $11.75 USDT.

At the time of this writing, Binance Coin is trading around $15.35 USDT on its namesake cryptocurrency exchange. It is currently down approximately 20.04 percent in USD valuation and down 6.51 percent against Bitcoin (BTC), according to CoinMarketCap.

BNB Has Resistance Overhead

Should Binance Coin reverse direction and look to make some sort of recovery against Tether (USDT), it will face stiff resistance overhead from both the aforementioned Fibonacci levels and the daily exponential moving average (EMA) ribbon — with the latter having historically acted as both support and resistance.

Sellers in Control

The relative strength index for Binance Coin’s daily price action shows that sellers have been firmly in control since the altcoin topped out in late-June.

The popular indicator has currently spiked down into deeply-oversold levels.

Click here for a real-time bitcoin price chart.