DATE:  15.05.2019, 05:32:47
TITLE: All the theories behind bitcoin's recent price surge
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-bitcoin-price-is-rising-053247539.html

A visual representation of the digital Cryptocurrency, Bitcoin is displayed on April 03, 2019 in Paris, France. Photo: Chesnot/Getty Images

Bitcoin (BTC-USD) is back.

The cryptocurrency has risen by over 100% against the dollar since the start of the year and over 50% since the start of the month. As of Tuesday, bitcoin was trading at a 10-month high above $8,000.

What’s behind the recent price spike? Everyone has a theory, but no one quite knows for sure.

“It’s kind of like saying why is there GDP growth that’s positive today — it could be many factors,” Tim Byun, the US CEO of crypto exchange OKCoin, told Yahoo Finance UK.

Here’s are all the main theories behind the recent price bump.

US-China trade tensions

View photos President Donald Trump, right, with China's President Xi Jinping, left, during their bilateral meeting at the G20 Summit, Saturday, Dec. 1, 2018 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Photo: AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais More

While bitcoin has been trending higher throughout 2019, it has spiked 30% since Friday.

That coincided with US President Donald Trump slapping 25% tariffs on $200bn-worth of Chinese imports at the end of last week and China retaliating in kind on Monday.

The tit-for-tat trade war sent stocks tanking, with the S&P 500 (^GSPC) and the Dow (^DJI) both falling more than 2% on Monday.

As a result, some market commentators think bitcoin’s bull run has been fuelled by investors dumping stocks and buying bitcoin as the trade war heats up.

“It’s a natural hedge,” David Siemer, CEO of blockchain-focused investment firm Wave Financial, told Yahoo Finance. “The pitch for crypto for people like me has always been that it’s a non-correlated asset with the stock market, and it’s proven that a lot of times.”

David Cheetham, chief market analyst at trading platform XTB, said: “As is often the case with such an opaque market it is hard to definitively state what has caused this rally, but the recent escalation in US-China trade tensions seem about as plausible reason as any.”

Chinese investors piling in

View photos The Chinese yuan has been falling against the US dollar. Photo: Yahoo Finance UK More

A slightly different take on the trade war theory is that Chinese investors are piling into bitcoin to protect their wealth.

Some analysts argue Chinese investors are dumping yuan (CNYUSD=X) for bitcoin, reasoning that bitcoin will likely hold its value more than yuan over the next few months. The Chinese currency fell to its lowest level against the dollar since December on Monday.

“Rather than investors seeking out inherently risky assets as safe havens, a more likely explanation is the recent drop in the Chinese Yuan and the expectation of a further depreciation when Beijing seek to make exports more attractive in response to the latest round of US tariffs,” Cheetham said.

China banned bitcoin trading in February last year but investors in the country are reportedly still able to buy bitcoin from over-the-counter dealers rather than online marketplaces. Because bitcoin is still officially banned, this practice takes place in the shadows and it’s hard to tell how significant it is.

Lots of good headlines

View photos Facebook cofounders Cameron, left, and Tyler Winklevoss have launched a new app that lets you spend crypto in stores like Whole Foods. Photo: AP Photo/Charles Krupa, File More

Bitcoin’s rally also coincides with Consensus 2019 in New York, one of the industry’s biggest annual conferences. Around 5,000 people have descended on the Manhattan Midtown Hilton Hotel to talk about all things bitcoin and crypto.