DATE:  15.05.2019, 12:45:52
TITLE: Keep Track of Important Crypto Events With Coindar
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/keep-track-of-important-crypto-events-with-coindar/

Keep Track of Important Crypto Events With Coindar

The cryptocurrency space is abundant with events, from blockchain upgrades to platform launches and informal meetups. Coindar is a free calendar tool that helps crypto enthusiasts closely follow what’s happening in the industry and make better investment decisions.

Also read: Track Rising Crypto Prices With Cryptowat.ch

Online Calendar Tracks Coin-Related Developments

Coindar is an online platform where users can track upcoming events related to various digital coins and tokens. Acquiring this type of information can be crucial for any crypto investor who wants to be successful in the long run.

Some events may significantly influence the prices of cryptocurrencies, creating opportunities for traders in the loop to profit or even to claim electronic cash. These include periods with halvings, hard forks and airdrops.

Coindar provides multiple filtering and sorting options. Events can be sorted by date or time period but users can also choose to display only those that have been added recently or just the most popular. The website currently shows almost 800 upcoming events, 26 of which have been added in the last 24 hours.

Events can be filtered by tags such as announcement, update, meetup, and brand. You can also pick those that have been added from what has been determined to be a reliable source, the ones that the platform considers important or your own favorites.

Users interested in a particular cryptocurrency can find the events that pertain to their favorite coin. For example, typing BCH in the search bar will show you the upgrade which introduces Schnorr signatures to the Bitcoin Cash network. It has been marked as an important event and the website links to the Bitcoin.com Company Blog where you can get more detailed information about it.

Coindar also maintains a Forecasts page as well as a Coins page, which is a cryptocurrency market cap aggregator offering real-time data for hundreds of digital currencies.

What other crypto calendars do you know or use? Tell us more about their features in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Coindar.

Do you want to keep an eye on moving cryptocurrency prices? Visit our Bitcoin Markets tool to get real-time price updates, and head over to our Blockchain Explorer tool to view all previous BCH and BTC transactions.