DATE:  08.04.2019, 17:34:30
TITLE: Bitmain's New Antminer Specs Show Devices Process Over 50 Terahash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitmains-new-antminer-specs-show-devices-process-over-50-terahash/

Bitmain's New Antminer Specs Show Devices Process Over 50 Terahash

On April 8, the Chinese mining rig manufacturer Bitmain Technologies unveiled the specifications for the company’s latest Antminer 17 series. The firm claims the three new bitcoin miners command a hashrate of over 50 trillion hashes per second (TH/s) which outpaces nearly all top machines today.

Also read: Uyen T Nguyen: The Powerful Young Woman Behind the Alleged ‘Satoshi Affair’

Bitmain’s Second Generation Antminer 17 Series Packs 50-56 Trillion Hashes per Second

Just recently news.Bitcoin.com reported on the two large mining rig manufacturers Bitmain and Canaan revealing their next generation mining devices. At the time, Canaan revealed the new Avalonminer 10 would process 31TH/s but Bitmain had not disclosed the new Antminer 17 series specs. Now China’s second largest fabless chipmaker has announced the first batch sales for four S17s which starts Tuesday, April 9 and will ship April 20-30. The new miners in the latest series include the Antminer S17, S17 Pro and the T17 which will be introduced at a later date. All three types of models are built using Bitmain’s BM1397 7nm mining chips which are more efficient than the company’s previous 7nm chips.

The S17 Pro models offer two types of variants which include a 53 TH/s and a 50 TH/s model. Moreover, the S17s come with three types of mining modes which can be customized by the customer. For instance, using turbo mode, the S17 Pro has a power efficiency of 45 J/TH (trillions of hashes per joule), normal mode processes at 39.5 J/TH, and the low-power setting operates at 36 J/TH. Now, one would think the Pro models process more hashes per second but this is not the case. The standard S17s are actually more powerful, processing 53-56 trillion hashes per second. According to Bitmain, the two standard S17s have a power efficiency of 45 J/TH using normal mode, while the low-power mode only utilizes at 42 J/TH.

S17s Outpace the Competition

Over the next two days, Bitmain will be selling the miners in two batches, on Tuesday and Wednesday, but the price per machine has not yet been announced. Depending on the cost Bitmain’s machines could outshine most of the machines on the market due to performance including competitors like Ebit, Innosilicon, Canaan, and Asicminer machines. The manufacturer Asicminer sells devices that claim to process between 44-76 trillion hashes per second but there are very few reviews and wholesalers selling these devices. Then there’s the Whatsminer M10S model from Microbt Mining which has a maximum hashrate of 55TH/s and power consumption of 3500W.

Besides those three machines, the Antminer 17 series will pack the most hashrate out of all the next generation miners. According to Asicminervalue.com, the data website that measures mining profitability in real time estimates, the new machines will pull in roughly US$5 a day mining BTC at today’s difficulty. The two Asicminer brand machines only profit by $3-4 a day and the Whatsminer M10S only takes in roughly $1.40 per day. The reason Bitmain’s machines gain more profit than these three models is due to power consumption specifications. For instance, the Antminer S17 that does 56TH/s only pulls 1470-2100W off the wall in low power mode and 2520W for the higher setting. There are 144 BM1397 7nm chips in the S17 model (56TH/s version) and the fan’s noise rating is only around 9.50 decibels.

The new Antminers are shipping worldwide but US buyers will have to pay extra due to the recent Trump trade wars with China. US buyers can expect to add an additional 2.5% tax and an import duty tax in accordance with current trade regulations with China. The new Antminer 17 series first and second batch shipments will begin shipping on a first-paid-first-ship basis.

What do you think about the new Antminer 17 series miners? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image credits: Bitmain Technologies, Shutterstock, and Pixabay.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can even look up the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.