DATE:  14.05.2019, 12:54:32
TITLE: How to Send Bitcoin Cash via Text Messages to Anyone With a Mobile Phone
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/how-to-send-bitcoin-cash-via-text-messages-to-anyone-with-a-mobile-phone/

How to Send Bitcoin Cash via Text Messages to Anyone With a Mobile Phone

Cointext allows you to send bitcoin cash (BCH) to anyone with a mobile phone in the regions supported by the service even if you don’t have access to the internet. On a global scale, the availability of cheap devices can help many more people use cryptocurrency for payments via SMS text messages.

Also Read: Learn How to Create BCH Apps With Bitcoin.com’s Developer Platform

The Cointext SMS Bitcoin Cash Wallet

Cointext is a platform that enables users to transfer cryptocurrency using simple text messages. The mobile wallet service allows anyone with a basic mobile device to send funds via SMS to other phone numbers or bitcoin cash (BCH) addresses.

On the receiving side, people don’t need to download a wallet, install an app, set up an account or even have access to the internet. Users can set up new accounts just by sending ‘START’ to the Cointext access number in their region, with other actions similarly ordered by simply texting commands.

The Cointext service is growing in coverage areas around the world and is already supported in over 40 markets. These include Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Czechia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jersey, Latvia, Lithuania, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Romania, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, UK, Ukraine, and the USA. Check out the website for details and access numbers in your area.

Earlier this year Cointext has also added support for the BIP70 payment protocol, this means that users can now pay Bitpay invoices using the text messaging service.

What do you think about the ability to send BCH via text messages? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH, and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.