DATE:  07.02.2019, 08:33:37
TITLE: Exodus wallet adds full support for Bitcoin SV
URL:   https://coingeek.com/exodus-wallet-adds-full-support-bitcoin-sv/

Adoption of Bitcoin SV (BSV) continues to expand. As of February 6, Exodus, the desktop cryptocurrency wallet, has announced that they are now fully supporting BSV.

The news came in a tweet, announcing the new 19.2.5 version of Exodus, as well as the addition of support for BSV. The wallet is now capable of sending, receiving, and exchanging BSV, as well as provide transactions export, notifications and personal support.

Aware that many users holding Bitcoin Cash (BCHABC) may now want to claim BSV they were entitled to when Bitcoin was reborn in the November 15, 2018 hard fork, Exodus has provided an easy to follow guide for users to use, both for Exodus and for other wallets.

Currently, Exodus is developed for Windows, macOS and Linux, but their website advertises a mobile version will be coming to the Apple App store sometime this year.

BSV fans were enthusiastic about the update. One tweeted at Ledger, encouraging them to follow suit. If Exodus can add BSV support as a free desktop platform, why can’t a money maker like the Ledger hardware wallet?

As Exodus offers exchange support for nearly 100 other cryptos, this provides yet another easy way for people to get themselves some BSV. If you need more help doing that though, our Charles Miller recently wrote about his easy experience buying BSV for himself.

This news comes just a few weeks after the world’s largest crypto exchange, Binance, added BSV trading pairs. Momentum is steadily growing for BSV, as more businesses and customers recognize the benefits of large blocks, and the ability to massively scale on chain. BSV has already proven it can sustain 64MB blocks for 24-hour periods, and has already achieved 103MB blocks in testing. The benefits of scaling are clear: consistently faster, safer transactions, and without network congestion, cheap as well. No other crypto currency can offer that.

That’s because BSV is the only cryptocurrency to follow Satoshi’s original vision. That vision was born mature, and because Bitcoin was reborn in the form of BSV, only BSV can fulfill the world’s need for a global digital currency.

New to Bitcoin? Check out CoinGeek’s Bitcoin for Beginners section, the ultimate resource guide to learn more about Bitcoin—as originally envisioned by Satoshi Nakamoto—and blockchain.