DATE:  23.01.2019, 17:55:16
TITLE: “Most Of The Crypto People Suffer From The Bitcoin Derangement Syndrome”, Suggests The Bitcoin Educator Jimmy Song
URL:   https://blockpublisher.com/most-of-the-crypto-people-suffer-from-the-bitcoin-derangement-syndrome-suggests-the-bitcoin-educator-jimmy-song/

The bitcoin educator, entrepreneur and developer, Jimmy Song diagnoses a sever condition that is common among the crypto folks, the Bitcoin Derangement Syndrome. As per the condition, As Song suggests the person disregards the genesis crypto, the bitcoin over baseless facts which he thinks other altcoins can cover up. Either people come around the fact that there is some new way of transacting money and monetary assets which is absolutely rubbish as bitcoin has been around for quite sometime and will stick with us as long as we breath. Taking bitcoin as a new technology and that there is a whole new data system of blockchain is simply not true as these two were the ones that revolutionized the financial systems. Some people belief the fallacy that the lack of a central entity will disrupt the bitcoin and the entire blockchain and that we need centralization in order to cope up with the outside elements and scammers. Though this might seem a legit fact to many of the people who do suffer from the aforementioned condition, this is certainly not true as the central entity has all the information and the access and no other thing is more dangerous than a single entity bearing all the power. BlockPublisher got to discuss the malady with Jimmy Song and was able to gather some comments from the man himself.

Most people who disregard bitcoin suffer from the Bitcoin Derangement Syndrome which affects a person in such a way that the person starts to think of Bitcoin and the blockchain as new technologies or on the other hand, the person feels that the only solution to everything is the centralization of Bitcoin and every other crypto.

Bitcoin is the oldest crypto, a crypto sage that other crypto follow in order to achieve prosperity. What the new cryptos do in addition to following bitcoin is bring a new feature on board. A representative for the crypto exchange, XCOEX, states that most people think that people need to be made aware of bitcoin and that it needs popularization.