DATE:  09.08.2019, 19:46:57
TITLE: Binance US Evaluating 30 Crypto Assets, Bitcoin and Ethereum Under Scrutiny?
URL:   https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/08/09/binance-us-crypto-bitcoin-ethereum/

An announcement earlier in the year that Binance would be shutting out US-based investors instead ushering them to a US-based exchange that was sans the majority of the altcoins the exchange is known for, caused crypto investors to panic, wondering where they’d trade their Bitcoin and Ethereum moving forward.

Today, the crypto exchange shed some light on which assets it would be evaluating for inclusion at its new US-only exchange, and it features a total of 30 different crypto assets, including Bitcoin, and Ethereum.

Binance Reveals List of 30 Crypto Assets Replacing Exotic and Extensive Altcoin Offering

Back in June, Binance tipped off the world to the fact that the crypto industry would soon be put under a microscope by United States financial regulators when they revealed that they would soon be barring US-based investors from using its flagship platform in favor of a US-centric exchange in partnership with an unnamed FinCEN-registered third-party.

Related Reading | Binance De-Risks Amidst Regulatory Pressure, Plans for US Crypto Exchange

The announcement was abrupt, and the calculated crypto brand appeared to be underprepared, scrambling to put together an alternative for US investors who make up the lion’s share of the crypto market.

The sudden change and fear that funds could be lost, investor began to panic. A user-generated list was circulating around the internet, giving some investors hope as to which altcoins might make it to the US version of Binance.

Now, Binance themselves have revealed the list of which assets they’re “evaluating,” stopping short of any sort of commitment to list any of the coins on the list.

“ADA, ATOM, BAT, BCHABC, BNB, BTC, DASH, EOS, ETC, ETH, HOT, IOTA, LINK, LOOM, LTC, MANA, NANO, NEO, PAX, REP, RVN, TUSD, USDC, USDT, VET, WAVES, XLM, XRP, ZIL, ZRX,” are all included in the list.

Could Bitcoin and Ethereum Be Banned from Binance US?

Binance says they, like Coinbase and other industry giants, have rolled out what they call Digital Asset Risk Assessment Framework that helps them sift through the thousands of coins on the market, and classify them as either “bona fide blockchain projects with a real chance of making the world more efficient,” or as the crypto community affectionally calls them, “shitcoins.”

Oddly, two crypto tokens the furthest away from being labeled as “shitcoins” – Bitcoin and Ethereum – are included as assets that Binance is evaluating, suggesting the two most dominant crypto tokens aren’t a shoo-in for exchange listing as most would think.

Binance says it will only ultimately accept assets that “comply with applicable legal requirements,” which according to US law should make Bitcoin and Ethereum as good as guaranteed.

Related Reading | The United States’ Distrust in Facebook Libra Is Spilling Into Crypto

The apprehension is due to the sudden interest that US regulators are taking in Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies following Facebook announcing their own crypto asset, Libra.