DATE:  17.06.2019, 21:29:00
TITLE: Bitcoin price: How to buy bitcoin? Is it easy to buy cryptocurrency? How do you get BTC?
URL:   https://www.express.co.uk/finance/city/1141650/bitcoin-price-how-to-buy-bitcoin-price-news-btc-usd-crypto

The price of bitcoin has hit its highest level since May last year, as the crypto’s surge going from strength to strength. Bitcoin is currently trading at £7,406 ($9,291) at 9pm on Monday, June 17, having begun 2019 trading well below $4,000. Industry insiders believe the wide-spread rumours Facebook is set to launch its own crypto competitor have fuelled the bitcoin bounce, along with a raft of rival cryptocurrencies. The world’s most valuable cryptocurrency remains a long way off its peak price of close to $20,000, which it reached in late 2017.

How to buy bitcoin?

Breaking $9,000 is another significant price moment for Bitcoin, but I’m still not sold on the idea that it’s up, up, up from here. eToro analyst Simon Peters

Before you buy bitcoin, users must first download a bitcoin wallet. First time customer will be required to fill out a simple online form with basic details. Once users have a bitcoin wallet, they use a traditional payment method to buy bitcoins on a bitcoin exchange, before the bitcoins are transferred to your wallet. READ MORE: How to use a bitcoin mining calculator

Bitcoin price: The price of bitcoin has hit its highest level since May last year

Bitcoin price: Facebook will reportedly launch its own crypto competitor

Exchanges are digital platforms where bitcoin are exchanged for fiat currency, for example, BTC for US dollars. Since wallets must be secure, exchanges do not encourage storing large amounts of bitcoin or for long periods. Therefore, it is advisable to transfer your Bitcoins to a secure wallet. Security must be your top priority when choosing a bitcoin wallet, so opt for one with a multi-signature facility.

The user then clicks the Buy tab to purchase crypto currency and the Sell tab to exchange digital asset. Users select which currency is to be bought or sold and which payment method will be used. The common assumption that bitcoins are stored in a wallet is actually incorrect. Bitcoins are not stored anywhere and bitcoin balances are maintained using public and private “keys,” which are long strings of numbers and letters linked through the mathematical encryption algorithm used to create them. The public key, analogous to an international bank account number, is the address published to the world, and to which others may send bitcoins.

Bitcoin price: The flagship crypto's price peaked close to $20,000 in 2017

Bitcoin price: Customers wishing to buy BTC must first download a bitcoin wallet