DATE:  17.06.2019, 13:49:44
TITLE: Blockmodo Lets You Create a Snapshot Cryptocurrency Price Widget
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/blockmodo-lets-you-create-a-snapshot-cryptocurrency-price-widget/

Blockmodo Lets You Create a Snapshot Cryptocurrency Price Widget

Cryptocurrency prices never stop moving, as the market exists in a constant state of flux. There are instances, though, when it’s useful to be able to hit the pause button and view the price of a cryptocurrency at a fixed point in time. For such occasions, Blockmodo’s snapshot widgets provide historical prices that are easy to absorb at a glance.

Also read: Bitcoin.com Just Rebranded – Check out Our New Look

Snapshot Widget Shows Crypto Prices Frozen in Time

If you’re composing an article that addresses cryptocurrency prices at a specific point in time, it may be beneficial to have a visual representation. Until recently, your options were limited to screenshotting the chart and then embedding the image into your report. Blockmodo has now created a snapshot tool that provides a cleaner, lighter and less laborious alternative. Its price widgets page provides the ability to include a snapshot price quote, accompanied by relevant market data. The code can then be embedded into your blog or website as HTML, where it will form an aesthetically pleasing miniature chart.

A snapshot widget can be particularly useful for situations where you want to be able to show context to readers. This might be because a particular digital asset has just experienced sudden volatility or passed an all-time high, for example.

A snapshot of Bitcoin Cash’s price was taken on June 17th, 2019. The price was 429.91 USD with an open price of 427.06 USD. Bitcoin Cash price quote.

Use a Streaming Widget for Real-Time Data

In addition to its snapshot widgets, Blockmodo provides more conventional streaming widgets that display the live price of a particular digital asset. Alternatively, for real-time data on BCH and BTC, Bitcoin.com provides a host of streaming widgets. Our bitcoin cash and bitcoin core widgets have recently been updated to reflect Bitcoin.com’s new branding. Available in white or black, Bitcoin.com widgets are finished in a tasteful green, and provide live updates on the state of the bitcoin markets, pegged to various fiat currencies.

What are your favorite crypto price widgets? Let us know in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Did you know you can verify any unconfirmed Bitcoin transaction with our Bitcoin Block Explorer tool? Simply complete a Bitcoin address search to view it on the blockchain. Plus, visit our Bitcoin Charts to see what’s happening in the industry.