DATE:  06.08.2019, 14:25:22
TITLE: Net Worth, Cryptocurrency Holdings, Bio (2020 Update)
URL:   https://blockmanity.com/influencers/bitcoin-creator-satoshi-nakamoto-net-worth-cryptocurrency-holdings-bio-2019/

2019 had been a good year for Bitcoin. Bitcoin broke above $10K in 2019, almost 300% increase from the November 2018 low, where Bitcoin touched $3,850. And the cryptocurrency is increasing in value day by day.

It’s 2020 now and Bitcoin’s value is stable. It is currently trading at $7,205. It is wildly speculated that Bitcoin might reach an all-time high in 2020 due to Bitcoin Halving which is expected to take place in the second half of 2020.

Bitcoin was conceptualized and created by Satoshi Nakamoto. It is widely believed that Satoshi Nakamoto is a pseudonym and the real identity of Bitcoin creator is not known.

Satoshi Nakamoto published the Bitcoin’s whitepaper in 2008, as a direct response to the 2008 financial crash. The first Bitcoin block was mined in 2009 by Satoshi Nakamoto.

Since then Bitcoin has only increased in value. At its peak in 2017, 1 Bitcoin was trading at roughly $20,000. Being the creator of Bitcoin and the world’s most valuable digital cryptocurrency its only fitting that Satoshi Nakamoto joins the billionaire club.

Satoshi Nakamoto’s Cryptocurrency Holding

Satoshi Nakamoto was active in the Bitcoin project until 2010. During that time, the Bitcoin creator had mined 1 million Bitcoins. After that, he mysteriously disappeared. No one knows whether he has invested in other cryptocurrencies, or whether he is still alive.

Currently, Satoshi Nakamoto holds 1 million Bitcoins.

Due to the various forks of Bitcoin blockchain, Satoshi Nakamoto holds some of the newly created tokens as well. Two of the most popular tokens from Bitcoin’s fork are – Bitcoin Cash (BCH) and Bitcoin SV (BSV) both of which Satoshi Nakamoto holds 1 million tokens.

Satoshi Nakamoto’s Net Worth

At Bitcoin’s peak ($20,000), Satoshi Nakamoto’s Bitcoin holding were worth more than $20 billion making him the 48th richest person in the world. Since then his net worth has dropped.

Based on the current value of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto’s Bitcoin holding will be around will be $7.2 billion. But Satoshi Nakamoto also holds 1 million Bitcoin Cash, which is roughly worth $200 million (1 BCH = $200). And Satoshi Nakamoto holds 1 million Bitcoin SV, which is roughly worth $100 million (1 BSV = $100).

Summing it all up we can say Satoshi Nakamoto’s Net worth is $7.5 billion in 2020. This makes Satoshi Nakamoto the 63rd richest person in the world.

Satoshi Nakamoto’s Bio

Very little is known about the Bitcoin creator. It is widely believed that the name Satoshi Nakamoto was a pseudonym. Satoshi Nakamoto was the first person to solve the double-spend problem of virtual currencies, and also the first one to create the blockchain database.

Moreover, it is believed that Satoshi Nakamoto is not a Japanese descent as the name suggests but a person living in the US or Europe.

Satoshi Nakamoto Dead?

It’s hard to say whether Satoshi Nakamoto is dead or alive. In fact, no one knows whether Satoshi Nakamoto was an individual or a group of people.

Craig Steven Wright

Craig Steven Wright (Craig Wright) is an Australian computer scientist who was one of the early adopters of Bitcoin. Craig Wright rose to international fame when he claimed that he is Satoshi Nakamoto, the creator of Bitcoin. But that claim has been widely rebutted by the Bitcoin community including early adopters.

Craig Wright is the person responsible of Bitcoin SV along with Billionaire Calvin Ayre.

Disclaimer: Blockmanity is a news portal and does not provide any financial advice. Blockmanity's role is to inform the cryptocurrency and blockchain community about what's going on in this space. Please do your own due diligence before making any investment. Blockmanity won't be responsible for any loss of funds.

Get the latest news on Blockchain only on Blockmanity.com. Subscribe to us on Google news and do follow us on Twitter @Blockmanity

Did you like the news you just read? Please leave a feedback to help us serve you better