DATE:  27.02.2020, 10:43:37
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Dungeon: Immortal Evil Slot Machine by EvoPlay
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-dungeon-immortal-evil-slot-machine-by-evoplay/433710

Dungeon Immortal Evil is Evoplay’s first crossover ever made between an RPG and a slot machine. The game comes with upgradable features for both hero and bestiary, free Spins and big win prizes after Malak. The game can be played on Bitcoincasino.io.

Unfortunatly, we have no free play mode for Dungeon Immortal Evil available. Check out the screenshots below and hop right into action with one of the recommended casino sites!

Rather than spinning reels up or down, the gameplay here is a little different and definitely improves your gaming experience. As the name suggests, you’ll wander around the underground dungeon accustomed to all sorts and kinds of nasty evil creatures. Because of that, there is no classic layout with reels and rows which contributes to this hybrid game’s unique setting.

A few things all of the so-called classic slot machines have in common. Firstly, depending on your ambitions and ideas, you can play for fun and real money. Also, the value of the coin ranges from € 0.10 to € 500 and the value can be set according to your betting strategy. Last but not least, the Dungeon Immortal Evil Free Play mode provides more than enough demo credits for any purpose you can ever imagine.

Now, another interesting aspect to argue on is the paytable. Symbols in this game are underworld hand-drawn demons, each with its own characteristics and rating of payouts. Imp Demon, for example, is a small, fast-moving nemesis that pays 90 coins when they get killed. Skeleton has the lowest payout ratio that only awards 75 coins, but we’re talking about a weak and fable opponent you’re going to beat at any moment.

On the other hand, with its sharp teeth and huge fists, massive and frightening Inferno is the highest-paying symbol able to damage your hero 26x. Still, winners will receive 180 coins from the battle with that clumsy yet extremely dangerous demon. Succubus also pays 110 coins with the attack speed dealing with a 21x-damage 1.