DATE:  27.02.2020, 20:22:41
TITLE: Bitcoin Sits Below $9k as Coronavirus Stifles Global Supply
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/bitcoin-continues-to-tumble-as-coronavirus-stifles-global-supply/

U.S. imports from China have plummeted significantly in the past two weeks due to the coronavirus. Many fear that the result could be ‘supply shocks’ that lead to a recession — and Bitcoin BUY NOW might not be immune.

Could supply shocks become the catalyst that sends the U.S. and global economy into a recession? According to recent stats, imports from China into the U.S. have fallen off significantly, which is a sign of trouble.

A Shock to Global Supply Chains

China is, by far, the world’s top supplier of most major commodities. This is why the coronavirus The majority of cryptocurrency assets, along with the entire global financial sector have taken a sizeable hit in the last... More has caused such sluggish global economic activity since it began — and many are now fearing it could get worse.

According to data cited by analyst Mati Greenspan, U.S. imports from China have plummeted from 1.088 metric tons during the week of Feb 13 to 0.588 metric tons during the week of Feb 20. If this trend holds, we could see some serious shocks to the global supply chain which could start a recession.

Supply shock coming to a store near you. Watch out for rising prices. pic.twitter.com/TTJSa75QtT — Mati Greenspan (Not trading advice) (@MatiGreenspan) February 26, 2020

The good news is that the global economy can bounce back from a virus-induced supply shock much more easily than it can during other crises. As one notable commentator (@prestonjbyrne) writes, the ‘supply shock’ caused by the Spanish Flu after WWI also brought forward the roaring 1920s boom. So, that’s something to consider.

A viral recession will be different from a normal recession in that it won't result from capital misallocation but rather a supply shock. If the underlying economy is healthy, once the disease is curbed that economy should spin up. The Roaring Twenties followed the Spanish Flu. — Preston Byrne (@prestonjbyrne) February 26, 2020

Watching for a Bitcoin Reaction

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.