DATE:  27.02.2020, 05:54:21
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Golden Yak Slot by Microgaming
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-golden-yak-slot-by-microgaming/542105

Lightning Box Games will bring you Golden Yak, a slot where you’ll climb to the plains to tame this bison’s bovine cousin. You’ll get generous payouts in return, as well as boost multipliers up to 100 times your stake! The game can be played at Bitcoincasino.io.

The paytable showcases an array of symbols that are all important to the Mongolian people. Some of them include hunting eagles, cats, reindeer, horses, and a warrior from the expressive Pallas. And since the slot uses the punter-favorite 1024 ways-to-win format, it’s as easy to trigger wins with these as landing identical symbols virtually anywhere on the grid, starting from left to right. As you might guess, the Yak assumes an important role in the game. It acts as the wild to replace all the regular symbols so you can complete more winning combinations.

Relying on 5×4 reels & 1024 ways to win, Golden Yak has some typical features like wilds, free spins, and scatters. There will also be up to 100x wild multipliers to be applied at the same time and that will give you a lot of excitement.

Released on the Quickfire platform powered by Microgaming, Golden Yak is a nice addition to the cartoonish & wacky portfolio of slots at Lightning Box Games. And although it may not have what it takes to become a landmark in the slotsverse, its generous 1024 ways-to-win format, unique game bonus screen and decent paytable should be enough to convince you to give it a go.

With scatter symbols also part of the game’s symbols, you’ll be able to access the free spins as long as you have enough of them on the reels. As I mentioned above, there are wild multipliers that are as high as 10x, which can be combined to maximize the effect of winning up to 100x boosts.

It’s a game that seems to have a theme of Mongol style, with a focus on the Yak, along with different other creatures seen in the wild. While the Golden Yak acts as the wild symbol, there will be feline predators, eagles, wild horses and a reindeer in the game too. Also a Mongol Warrior will be part of the game, in this case maybe as a hunter. Lower symbols will unfortunately show us the Royals who are of low quality.