DATE:  27.02.2020, 07:40:23
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Dawn of Egypt Slot Machine by Play N’Go
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-dawn-of-egypt-slot-machine-by-play-ngo/402307

If you are looking for a developer who loves Egyptian themes, look no further than Play’n GO. Their slot, Dawn of Egypt Slot has been added to the games run by Bitcoin Casino. This game is the sequel to fan favorite Legacy of Egypt.

Just like most offerings from the famous game developer, the game is quite easy to follow and understand. The symbols in the game are of high quality and the backdrop reminds views of the beauty of Ancient Egypt. The 5 x 3 reels of the game are situated in a temple at the bottom of a pyramid with sunlight blazing in the background.

Play’n GO is not new to slots like this and they’ve become quite good at restoring the magic that era has to offer. You can’t blame players for taking time to admire the beautiful scenery. After that, they should choose the suitable bets from 10 pence up to €100 for each spin and the game comes to full life afterward. There are ten paylines that cross the reels which you can form combos of three matching symbols or more to get a payout.

From across the board, the symbol values are high in a way. The first set of symbols are the low paying symbols which are A – J royals which are appropriately styled in relation to the theme. The next set of symbols are the Horus, the gods Bastet, snake, scorpion, Ankh and a lotus flower.

If you’re able to land the Horus, the falcon God, you’ll get a whopping 100 times the amount you stake. The shiny scarab ornament is the standard wild and it’ll give you 100 times the sum you stake if you’re able to get 5 of it. It’ll also do what it does best by replacing the other standard symbols.

Hardcore slot players will definitely be pleased to see the slot comes with a high volatility rating 7/10. Another thing that captures players is the RTP, which is pegged at 96.23 percent but it can vary from market to market.

Just as we stated from the start, Play’n GO loves slots that look like Ancient Egypt. The advantage of this to players is that they can pull this off well which happens after a long period of practice. Backgrounds and symbols differ from slot to slot but there’s something familiar about it.

When looking at all the parts of Dawn of Egypt, it adds up to be an enjoyable slot. The potential of the game is also nice as it gives 5000 times the amount you stake. The high volatility associated with Dawn of Egypt also means you’ll be smiling to the bank if you hit the jackpot.

You’re likely to achieve this in the run of free spins. The fact that free spins can become pyramid spins is a great idea that adds an additional dimension to your earnings. One thing about the game is that it’s not about free spins alone.

Symbol values in the course of the base game stop it from being a drab game. Obviously, the highest paying symbols lines are quite rare, but they’re there lying in wait should Horus bless you with some coins.