DATE:  27.02.2020, 15:28:31
TITLE: Police investigate after victim loses $4,600 in bitcoin scam
URL:   https://www.nugget.ca/news/local-news/police-investigate-after-victim-loses-4600-in-bitcoin-scam

The North Bay Police Service has launched an investigation after a victim was defrauded of $4,600 in bitcoin this week during a scam phone call.

Police say the victim was contacted by phone Wednesday and the call display showed the numbers as being from the “Canadian Border Service Agency” and “Canadian Security Intelligence Service.”

The victim was advised she needed legal counsel as her identification had been compromised.

She was then directed in multiple conversations to collect the funds and send them via the digital or cryptocurrency bitcoin in order to cover the legal fees.

The victim sent the money and later called police after realizing it may have been a fraud.

North Bay police have since provided the following fraud prevention tips:

Do not trust call display. It may say “Police,” “Canadian Security Intelligence Service” or

“CBSA,” but in reality it may actually be a scammer. If you get a call from a person saying they represent a company or government agency and asking for personal information, hang up and call the number on your account statement or on the company or government agency’s website to verify. Do not call back the number they supply you. Look it up.

“CBSA,” but in reality it may actually be a scammer. If you get a call from a person saying they represent a company or government agency and asking for personal information, hang up and call the number on your account statement or on the company or government agency’s website to verify. Do not call back the number they supply you. Look it up. Never provide personal information such as your SIN, account numbers, passwords or other identifying information in response to unexpected calls.

Most scammers tell you this is an emergency, you can’t hang up and this is time sensitive, making you feel nervous and implying you have to “Act Now!” You need to slow down and think about what they are asking you to do. Time is on your side, so ask a friend for advice.

If the caller tells you to lie it will never be a government agency contacting you.

Tax season is coming so expect an increase in this type of fraud whether it comes by telephone, email or text messaging.

If you suspect fraud, you can report it to your local police or the Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre at 1-888-495-8501. You can stop phone fraud: just hang up.