DATE:  27.02.2020, 18:53:03
TITLE: TRON Justin Sun Wanted to be a Lawyer before Venturing into the Crypto Industry
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/11980/tron-justin-sun-wanted-to-be-a-lawyer-before-venturing-into-the-crypto-industry/

TRON Network facilitating TRX start every day with determination, positive emotional feeling, and loads of perseverance. Every day begins with a wish that typically reads in variants of what follows: “#HappyThursday! #TRON around the world! Can you tell where this #TRONIC is standing? #TRX”

Sydney Ifergan, the crypto expert, tweeted: “#TRON is seen with a determined and positive spirit every day. They don’t care about naysayers, and they keep growing. Their marketing methods are confusing, though! – $TRX”

Justin Sun spoke to AlexSaundersAU, “Australia’s most popular crypto YouTuber, to share unknown details about why he started @TronFoundation, culture & competition in our industry, memes, marketing, and more!”

Needless to state, Justin has a big personality and a big following. In a recent interview, he stated how he converted all his assets to bitcoin due to his fascination with it. He told it was the beginning of his journey.

Sun, recollected how he got introduced to a company called Opencoin, which is now Ripple. And how he went back to China in 2014 after one and a half years with Opencoin. It was in 2014; he stated that he wanted to start his own business. He spoke a bit about their business before TRON and stated that they launched the TRON protocol in 2017.

TRON (TRX) Justin Sun Wanted to Become a Lawyer

Justin Sun prepared to become a Lawyer, but he dropped his law career despite good scores as cryptocurrency changed his mind. He spoke about how when he started Bitcoin, then Litecoin and XRP were the only choices as they were the major cryptocurrency at that time.

When Justin started, Bitcoin was only a couple of dollars. He told me that XRP and Litecoin were almost like Zero.

TRON (TRX) the more Token, the More Power

Justin Sun opined that there is still opportunity in consumer blockchain. Way back when he started, he stated that there was no consumer blockchain. He said that when looking at any new technology like the internet or anything else, he said consumers take the adoption ahead before the big enterprise. And, that was the reason why he took to doing some business on the consumer side.

He stated that TRON wanted to compete with Ethereum to be more convenient for developers and, at the same time, faster and also cheaper network to developers. Sun believes that competition brings in perfection and which is why he believes the more competition, the better.

The more hash power, the more power on the blockchain is the general belief in the cryptocurrency space, but Sun believed that the more token he had, the more power he will have.

Advertisement