DATE:  27.02.2020, 14:30:06
TITLE: Want to earn bitcoins? Read this
URL:   https://azbigmedia.com/business/want-to-earn-bitcoins-read-this/

Bitcoins are becoming increasingly popular and there are thousands in number who constantly on the run to chase a tiny portion of this crypto whose value is only set to increase.

If you want to earn more Bitcoin, go through the various methods we’ve put together that will help on this adventurous journey:

Bitcoin mining has always been the star method

The best way to increase your stock of Bitcoin is to mine them. Mining is basically using hardware system to perform a set of mathematical operations in order to create new Bitcoins. However, according to its program, only 21 million Bitcoins can ever be produced, out of which 18 million are already in circulation that leaves just 3 million more that means you gotta hurry!

If you plan on mining Bitcoins on your own, you will need to purchase external devices called Bitcoin miners to help generate the computing power required to mine the cryptocurrency. The price of a Bitcoin miner will vary considerably based on its processing ability. The method may sound pretty simple but here’s the catch- for each subsequent Bitcoin that you mine, the computing power, and time consumption increases significantly. Over the past few years, the process has also become quite complicated along with the requirement of special expertise and equipment.

If you do not want to go through the hassle of setting up the devices or stride through the time-consuming process, you can take the help of contract miners. In contract mining, you will be required to pay a fee in exchange for the company to employ their Bitcoin mining equipment for you. You will need to sign a contract for a particular period of time and during that time, whatever number of Bitcoins are mined, will be sent to your Bitcoin wallet.

Complete micro-tasks to earn in bitcoin

Though mining allows you to earn quite a big number of Bitcoins over a shorter period of time than any other method, it is quite complicated and requires special equipment plus the initial investment on setting up is considerably large. A simpler way to earn Bitcoins is to complete micro-tasks that reward you in Bitcoins. Micro-tasks are these small, simple online actions, such as viewing an advertisement or liking or commenting on a social media post that you need to perform in order to get rewarded. The amount of Bitcoins you gain from this method is quite low but the process is equally simple, free of cost and does not require any special expertise.

There are several sites online that will pay you in Bitcoin if you view certain advertisements. Engage with these sites on a regular basis and over time you will be able to gain a lot of Bitcoin just by watching videos or commenting on posts.

Create content to earn from bitcoin-based ads

It is quite common for bloggers and content creators to get paid for advertising various products or services amidst their content. Nowadays, you can also get paid in Bitcoin instead of cash, provided you are looking at the right places.

There are quite a few organizations in the market that are now offering Bitcoins to content creators for promoting their products or services. They are also willing to offer it to websites who promote them, so if you are a content creator, there’s no better way than this to earn in crypto.

Lookup for organizations that are willing to offer Bitcoin in exchange for being promoted through your content. Get in touch with these organizations, create content exclusively for their target market, add a few lines in between which must neither look too salesy nor too subtle to notice, and you will be paid soon after! The more viewers your content has, the more Bitcoins you will receive.

The most sought-after advantage of this method is the consistency and diversity, i.e. you can earn both in Bitcoins and Dollars from the same website.

Lend the bitcoins you already have and earn interest in bitcoins

Lending out cash for interest has always been a great way to earn some additional income. In the same way, you can also lend out Bitcoin to others. Chances are that most of you reading this already have some amount of Bitcoin in your wallet. You can lend out some of these Bitcoin to at interest to someone who needs them urgently. Even for those who do not at present own any Bitcoin, you can earn some by following other methods we discussed above and then lend a few out of those. While this may not fetch you as many Bitcoin like mining, it is a great and simple way to earn without any special skills.

Just as you need to be careful when lending out cash, you need to be cautious when you allow others to borrow your Bitcoin. Bitcoin does not have insurance. If you lend yours to some fraudulent person, your hard-earned crypto will be lost forever. Make sure that you lend it only to people whom you can trust.

Additionally, there are many websites which provide valuable information to ensure you are in the right direction. Visit this page to know more about it.

Become a blockchain developer

The other options in this article mostly assist you if you want to make some additional Bitcoin in a simple, easy way. However, if you want to earn yourself a living through Bitcoin, these methods won’t suffice. For that, you will need to put in a lot more effort and serious work and become a blockchain developer. They are developers for various sites that use Bitcoin. Nowadays, many sites are adapting themselves by beginning to transact using Bitcoin. This opens up a world of possibilities for developers who have specialized knowledge of Blockchain.

These companies mostly offer both modes of payments – Bitcoins and currency. This method of earning Bitcoins is far more difficult than the others we have discussed, however, it is also the most rewarding one. If you are considering this option, let me warn you about the basic necessities: you must have an extraordinary knowledge of mathematics, computer science, and Blockchain.

Consider bitcoin faucets

Bitcoin faucets are, in a way quite similar to micro-tasks. Generally, you will receive a small amount of Bitcoin in return for some time you invest in going through advertisements. Usually, you will receive around just 1 Satoshi (a hundredth of a millionth BTC) which is though a very small amount but the required effort to acquire it also minimal. Faucets are different from micro-tasks in the way that users have to claim the Bitcoins at regular intervals that are specified.

Lastly, I am sure, since you are reading this, you are already aware of the volatility of the crypto market. But, don’t sway away due to the adrenaline rush of earning more, keep calm and trust your instincts – this will help you take wise and informed decisions.