DATE:  30.03.2020, 13:20:12
TITLE: Bitcoin Price: Forbes Financial Council Member/Contributor Eyes Possible Greater Fall
URL:   https://newslogical.com/bitcoin-price-forbes-financial-council-member-contributor-eyes-possible-greater-fall/

As Bitcoin continues to fall in its attempt to break above important psychological resistance $7,000, a member and contributor of the Forbes Financial Council aired a more bearish perception for the leading digital asset in an inquiry thrown to the crypto community on Twitter.

Known as David Gokhshtein, the New York-born financial expert asked if Bitcoin would witness another major fall that will tank its price greatly.

David Gokhshtein, a republican candidate for US House, New York, in the upcoming 2020 election, enquired if Bitcoin would hit the $3,000 region. Rather than a positive inquiry on Bitcoin’s price, the financial expert dropped the pessimistic question probably because of where is mind thinks the digital currency would be heading, more importantly, due to the lasting scourge.

“Bitcoin going to $3,800,” David asked.

While David is regarded as a lover of cryptocurrency especially due to his favorable contributions to the crypto space, he got numerous replies from people. Already, many try to watch out for his statement on crypto assets in making decisions in the market.

While David asked the demoralizing question, some have begun to term it as a prediction from the expert. However, the expert urged observers to not see is it as one.

COVID-19: David Gokhshtein Desires A Crypto Token to Help Donation

David has just dropped a hint on how the cryptocurrency would be of great help during this pandemic period. While commenting on the lasting epidemy that caused tolls of death around the world, David claimed that he wishes he had a crypto token to help facilitate donations.

David extolled health professionals for risking their lives to save people around the world. The New York house candidate revealed his belief that cryptocurrency would go a long way in helping people appreciate the efforts of the professionals.

He said he wished he had a charity token that would let people easily make donations to support health professionals working this period.