DATE:  23.05.2019, 10:59:24
TITLE: Bitcoin Billionaires: A True Story of Genius, Betrayal and Redemption by Ben Mezrich - review
URL:   https://www.standard.co.uk/lifestyle/books/bitcoin-billionaires-a-true-story-of-genius-betrayal-and-redemption-by-ben-mezrich-review-a4149621.html

ES Lifestyle newsletter The latest lifestyle, fashion and travel trends Enter your email address Continue Please enter an email address Email address is invalid Fill out this field Email address is invalid You already have an account. Please log in Register with your social account or click here to log in I would like to receive trends and interviews from fashion, lifestyle to travel every week, by email Update newsletter preferences

Ben Mezrich has enviable form penning excitable bestsellers with big-screen potential. Bringing Down the House, his fast-paced account of the MIT Blackjack Team who took on a Las Vegas casino, became high-grossing heist flick 21; Accidental Billionaires, a breakneck tour of the Harvard campus inception of Facebook, laid the groundwork for Oscar-winning Mark Zuckerberg biopic The Social Network. They, in these fast-moving times, are the sort of engrossing reads you’ll pick up idly in an airport, only to catch the blockbuster adaptation on the plane.

Cue Bitcoin Billionaires, a page-turner that rattles together — and tries to make some sense of — the mystifying world of cryptocurrency, fintech and overnight millionaires barely out of their board shorts, who “want this Bitcoin thing to overturn everything”.

This is also a do-over: Mezrich says he painted the Winklevoss twins, 6ft 5in Olympic rowers Cameron and Tyler, unkindly in Accidental Billionaires. He thought he had them pegged as “buttoned down ‘Men of Harvard’, privileged jocks” who tried to employ the brilliant Zuckerberg to code a college social network for them. He now recognises their own genius for spotting the next big thing.

Clearly all is forgiven: he called them up after reading a New York Times article labelling them “the first Bitcoin billionaires”, spent a year and a half interviewing them, and told Vanity Fair: “I think I’m the third Winklevoss twin now.” Mezrich has a gift for recognising that fact is stranger than fiction. What is bitcoin, the currency? Or Bitcoin, the digital infrastructure through which it’s traded? “Money as a social network”, explains one character brightly, sipping wine in a nightclub and bobbing to French electro. “Truly digital money, decentralised, that’s exchanged like email. There’s no middle men. There’s no authority. Money that moves at the speed of electricity, over the internet.”

The detail is dizzying. The value of traditional currency is underwritten by gold, worth whatever people are prepared to pay for it in cash. It exists, therefore it is. But bitcoin is underwritten by vast “blocks” of unique computer source code, as many as 31,000 lines long, which validate each bitcoin transaction. These chains of mathematical proofs can’t be replicated. Bitcoin “miners” spend fortunes on vast amounts of computer hardware (and energy bills) to crunch new numbers and discover more blocks, like infinite monkeys on infinite typewriters. Surely, they can crunch an analogy to better explain the phenomenon?

Mezrich’s books are the sort of engrossing reads you pick up in the airport then find the blockbuster film on the plane. Samuel Fishwick

Another enigma: who created it?

A mysterious entity named Satoshi Nakamoto is credited with inventing and encoding the first unhackable Bitcoin block, but it’s still unclear whether he was a pseudonym, or even a single person. At one glitzy apartment party atop a San Francisco sky-rise, the brothers wonder if he’s even in the room, anonymously. Spooky.

Sensibly, Mezrich opts to focus on action. He makes sense of bleeding-but-baffling-edge technology by following the human accessories: early-adopters, a rat pack of weed-smoking coders, dark-web pirates, libertarian philosophers and boy-wonder investors who wouldn’t feel out of place in a Thomas Pynchon novel — and like Pynchon, the thrill is in a wild chase for answers to a mystery that the layperson can only grope at.

The book stumbles on unconvincing dialogue: if Cameron truly looked at his brother, smiled and said “I’m six foot five, 220 pounds, and have a billion dollars’ worth of bitcoin — oh, and there’s two of me,” he deserves to eat this hardback. They’re better fleshed out here than in Accidental Billionaires (the loss of their sister is a poignant anchor) but largely function as aloof moneymen operating at 6ft 5in, 30 storeys up skyscrapers or 30,000ft high on private jets. The ethical battle between their digital passion — financial privacy — and Zuckerberg’s quagmire of connectivity and data links makes a neat contrast.

This book may not be the definitive bitcoin bible, but it will make for great in-flight entertainment.

Bitcoin Billionaires: A True Story of Genius, Betrayal and Redemption by Ben Mezrich (Little, Brown, £20)