DATE:  23.05.2019, 23:45:14
TITLE: Telecom Giant AT&T Now Accepts Bitcoin Cash Payments
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/telcom-giant-att-now-accepts-bitcoin-payments/

Telecom Giant AT&T Now Accepts Bitcoin Cash Payments

On May 23, telecom giant AT&T announced that customers can now pay their bills through Bitpay. The firm has become the first major U.S. mobile and landline carrier to accept BCH and BTC for payments.

Also Read: US Copyright Office Responds to Craig Wright’s Bitcoin Registrations

AT&T Now Accepts Crypto Payments

American multinational telecom conglomerate AT&T has partnered with Bitpay to allow users to pay their bills with cryptocurrencies. Customers can use the AT&T online platform when they log on to their accounts and select Bitpay as a payment option. This allows clients to access the Bitpay invoice portal, where they can select BCH or BTC in order to pay their bills. AT&T’s customer base is huge and the firm ranked #9 in the U.S. Fortune 500 rankings based on total revenue.

AT&T decided to partner with Bitpay and accept BCH and BTC because the firm wants to offer payment alternatives to better serve its customers. The vice president of AT&T’s communications finance business operations, Kevin Mcdorman, is thrilled to give clients more payment options. “We’re always looking for ways to improve and expand our services,” Mcdorman detailed during the announcement. The vice president also stated:

We have customers who use cryptocurrency, and we are happy we can offer them a way to pay their bills with the method they prefer.

A Major Company Accepting Crypto Is Great News to Most Digital Currency Enthusiasts

At the moment the option is not available at AT&T stores and cryptos cannot be used to purchase mobile devices or products. The partnership with Bitpay only works with the telecom company’s bill pay services. The firm started off as the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company in 1880, and since it rebranded to AT&T the corporation has been the second largest mobile service in the U.S. and the number one landline provider as well for quite some time.

Of course, cryptocurrency fans on social media are psyched to hear about AT&T accepting digital currencies. Bitcoin Cash fans over at Reddit forum r/btc celebrated the large merchant accepting digital currencies after the announcement. “Wow, it’s been a while since we’ve heard of a major company start accepting cryptocurrency payments in a context that isn’t through some third party passthrough like Flexa — And this means they accept BCH — Way to go AT&T,” one of the r/btc moderators remarked.

What do you think about AT&T accepting BCH and BTC for bill payments online? Let us know what you think about this partnership in the comments section below.

Image credits: AT&T, Pixabay, and Bitpay.

Want to create your own secure cold storage paper wallet? Check our tools section. You can also enjoy the easiest way to buy Bitcoin online with us. Download your free Bitcoin wallet and head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can buy BCH and BTC securely.