DATE:  02.03.2020, 12:56:29
TITLE: Bitcoin Community Witness Major Increase in Female Engagement
URL:   https://www.thecoinrepublic.com/2020/03/02/bitcoin-community-witness-increase-in-female-engagement-by-12-28/

Since the launch of Bitcoin, most bitcoin holders were men, the recent data by google trends shows a sharp increase in women engagement Advertisement



Increased engagement from the female side, is a good sign for Bitcoin as it is maturing as an asset.

Since the launch of Bitcoin, most bitcoin holders were men which according to the graph posted by Cypherpunk that there is an upward trend in the engagement of females in the digital currency industry.

Bitcoin Witness Gradual Increase in Female engagement Over Time

The graph shows the past three years data which states that the numbers increased from 3% to 10% and the key events which triggered was during the great boom of 2017 and the first six months of 2018 when there was a swelling in numbers all the way to 2019.

The graph also states that there is still a disparity in different stages of industry and the massive gender gap is made crystal clear which cannot be ignored.

The Blockchain industry is still having a long way to go before it achieves gender equality. The day when equality comes is may not be that far as the recent data from Arcane research suggest that the female engagement in the bitcoin community is growing faster.

Google trend data states that 87.72% of Bitcoins community engagement is driven by male activity and it also shows that the female community engagement has risen upward which is a yearly growth rate of more than 60% on average.

The increased engagement, especially from the female side, is a good sign for Bitcoin as it is maturing as an asset, attracting attention and liquidity from various new demographics.

Female engagement in the cryptocurrency ecosystem could trigger its growth into something immense and hence making it par to the gold.

Bitcoin is compared by many crypto enthusiasts that it is par to gold but there was little backing to it maybe this will give an answer to it.