DATE:  02.03.2020, 21:15:10
TITLE: Bitcoin Decouples From Markets as Gold Disappoints Amid Coronavirus Fears
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/bitcoin-decouples-from-markets-as-gold-disappoints-amid-coronavirus-fears/

Gold has been dropping amid fears that the coronavirus could cause supply shocks and become a worldwide pandemic. Bitcoin BUY NOW, on the other hand, has effectively ‘decoupled’ from the rest of the markets.

Gold is often touted as the ‘safe haven’ in times of global crisis. However, right when it was its moment to shine, gold has faltered and fallen like the rest of the markets.

Is It Really a Hedge?

Gold has tumbled and posted the worst losses since 2013 amid global panic surrounding the coronavirus The majority of cryptocurrency assets, along with the entire global financial sector have taken a sizeable hit in the last... More. According to common wisdom, gold should be rising during this period – but it’s not.

Gold was trading for $1,682 per ounce on Feb. 24, according to Bullion Vault. However, it has sunk since then to $1,585 per ounce. Although such a drop is not drastic for cryptocurrency markets, it is a significant drop-off for the stable precious metal. When placed on the monthly chart, the dip seems significant.

The drop-off has caused some gold bugs to go into damage control. Known Bitcoin hater Peter Schiff told his followers to “buy the dip” because gold is still up more than 6.5% this year. Many were quick to point out, however, that gold has recently failed to do the one thing its advocates claim it does: be a global safe haven during times of crisis.

Peter, you said over and over that when the stock market goes down people will pile into gold stocks. It’s not happening and I don’t hear a valid reason why — Entrepreneur in Ohio (@MatthewInTime) February 28, 2020

Gold seems to do poorly when the global crisis is not related to liquidity or inflation Most people who know anything about the economy have heard the word inflation. It is usually thrown around as a... More issues. As of now, it seems that gold will continue to slide further downward.

The reason is simple. This is NOT a liquidity problem. We are facing another supply chain crisis, NOT an inflationary crisis. Remember in 2008, gold FELL to $680. This is a trade problem. Gold is worth less than food and bullets at some point. Read the history of any seige. — Garrett Baldwin (@GarrettBaldwin) February 28, 2020

Bitcoin’s Moment to Prove Itself Is Here

Although some gold bugs are quick to disparage Bitcoin, the leading cryptocurrency has many advantages over gold. For example, gold ownership still relies on transport, which is susceptible to supply shocks. Bitcoin, on the other hand, is, of course, all digital. This means that in times of global panic, it can’t be held hostage by suppliers and transport.

In short, gold is performing poorly as a hedge – and this is Bitcoin’s moment to prove itself.

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.