DATE:  02.03.2020, 05:56:38
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Book of Merlin Slot Machine by 1 x 2 gaming
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-book-of-merlin-slot-machine-by-1-x-2-gaming/563805

Mystery and Magic abound in Book of Merlin and thanks to Bitcoin Casino you can now enjoy this slot. The game is a five reel, ten pay line slot from 1 x 2 Gaming.

Based on the renowned wizard, the slot features free spins round where one symbol is chosen randomly to fill and expand the entire reel each time it hits. The game works perfectly on all devices and you can play with as low as 10 pence and £50 for each spin. The RTP is fixed at 96 percent.

Merlin’s lab is filled with bubbling potions and books of spells, and its set in the Book of Merlin slot game.

You’ll find A – 10 royals on the reels together with a magic wand, an amulet and a flask full of liquid. The most profitable symbol is the bearded figure of Merlin. The master magician pays you about 1, 10, 100 or 500 times the sum you stake if you land any of 2, 3, 4 or 5 on a pay line.

The wild is the wizard’s book of spells and it’s also the scatter. This substitutes all the standard symbols. Land any of 3, 4 or 5 anywhere on the reels during the same spin and you will activate the slot’s only additional, the Free Spins feature.

Activate the feature round and you will get ten free spins. Right before the bonus starts, one symbol is selected at random. Every time this symbol falls during the free spins it’ll expand to fill the entire reel.

This expanding symbol can be whatever except the book of spells. You can reactivate the feature to give you an extra ten free spins.

1 x 2 Gaming did keep things nice and simple for this slot. There is nothing complex about the game play.

The Free Spins feature is worth landing, especially if you are able to get a symbol of high value as the expander – receiving Merlin can get you to 5,000 times the sum staked and it also wins on each free spin.

The game play may be similar for some players who have played several slots like this. If you want a good dose of wizardry, then the Book of Merlin is definitely your best bet. The games volatility is on the moderate side so you’re assured of wins even if the payout is not that high.