DATE:  02.03.2020, 19:19:12
TITLE: DogeCoin Is Progressing with the Magic of Doge Guided By a Friendly Bunch of People
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/12100/dogecoin-is-progressing-with-the-magic-of-doge-guided-by-a-friendly-bunch-of-people/

One of the exciting Dogecoin memes expresses that Apple, Google, and Amazon started off in a Garage. Dogecoin, with the recent update, feels that they are progressing. Dogecoin started off as a joke currency.

DogeCoin previously tweeted: “Exchanges, bots, services, and trading platforms are not places to leave your coins. Hardware can fail, things go down, services can cease, theft happens. Be safe and smart. Maintain your own funds, your keys, and be the only person with access to them.”

Sydney Ifergan, the Crypto Expert, tweeted: “There is nothing called use case for Dogecoin; however, there are many sites which accept Dogecoin for payments. Dogecoin is very popular with online casinos. A lot of fundraising with this coin.”

The growth of the DogeCoin is completely dependent on the peer-to-peer transaction that is compliance free. The algorithm of DogeCoin is a lot similar to Litecoin. The block time of DogeCoin is at 1 minute.

The coin works by proof of work (PoW) mining. Though a small altcoin, it has all the fundamental features which are loved by crypto miners and the cryptocurrency community. A decentralized network of miners and nodes sustain Doge. The mining community is very active. Some there are no use cases, there is not much to talk about DogeCoin accept its use as a currency in several online stores.

DogeCoin Wallet

It is straightforward to get started with Dogecoin Wallet. Users should check the getting started guide, and the rest should be set easily towards the start.

Dogecoin has been trading sideways after touching $0.00349. The coin is currently trading at $0.00227. The DOGE/USD does not have any support from the daily moving averages because the price trends are forming consistent lower highs ever since the second week of January.

Currently, the price of the Dogecoin is accumulating for the past two days. Before the current hike, the downtrend was intact. The 20-day Bollinger Bands might break the price trend very soon.

For those who are looking for a long list of places where the Dogecoin can be spent, someone who has already suffered has created a list of stores and merchants who accept the token.

One of the DogeCoin memes reads Do for Donations, Ge for generosity, Co for the community, in for involvement and finishes stating this can make a difference. The DogeCoin Foundation facilitates several promotional, goodwill, and charitable endeavors with the Dogecoin. The coin can, therefore, be used to fund causes utilizing the magic of Doge guided by a friendly bunch of people.

Advertisement