DATE:  02.03.2020, 14:00:00
TITLE: New Platform to Buy & Sell Bitcoin with No Self-Directed IRA Custodial Fees
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/platform-buy-sell-bitcoin-no-140000922.html

New Digital Solution by Gemini and leading Self-Directed IRA Provider will Eliminate Custodial Fees for all Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Investments

NEW YORK, March 02, 2020 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- IRA Financial (IRA Financial Group & IRA Financial Trust Company), a leading financial technology self-directed IRA and 401(k) plan provider & custodian, is excited to announce its digital solution for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency investments. Cryptocurrency investors can now make investments directly through Gemini without any LLC fees, broker fees or custodial fees.

IRA Financial's union with Gemini, one of the nation's leading digital currency exchanges, is offering the first digital solution that will allow clients to buy and sell cryptocurrency directly through the IRA Financial app securely and within minutes, and trust Gemini as the licensed and qualified custodian of the cryptocurrency private key.

The secure platform is designed for cryptocurrency investors to buy and sell Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency more securely and without custodial delays and high custodial fees.

President of IRA Financial, Adam Bergman, expressed his excitement over the future of the new digital platform. "I strongly believe that the best way to buy Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency with IRA Funds is with this Solution," said Bergman.

The IRA Financial / Gemini platform will provide IRA clients with complete control over their cryptocurrency. And savvy investors looking to minimize cost will appreciate the elimination of excessive broker commissions.

IRA Financial Group & IRA Financial Trust Company's self-directed IRA and solo 401(k) plan platform allows investors to invest in IRS approved alternative asset investments, such as cryptocurrency and real estate digitally and with no account valuation or minimum balance fees.

IRA Financial Group is the market's fastest growing provider of self-directed retirement plans and has helped over 16,000 clients invest over $4 billion in alternative assets, such as Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.

IRA Financial was founded by former tax attorney, Adam Bergman, a leading voice in the self-directed retirement industry. He is also the author of "How to Use Retirement Funds to Purchase Cryptocurrencies in a Nutshell."

To learn more about the IRA Financial visit their website at http://www.irafinancialgroup.com or call 800-472-0646.

SOURCE IRA Financial