DATE:  08.05.2019, 14:31:19
TITLE: 15 ways on how to get Free Bitcoins in 2019
URL:   https://blockmanity.com/guide/bitcoin-guide/free-bitcoins-15-ways-on-how-to-get-free-bitcoins-in-2019/

Bitcoin is up by almost 100% since the November 2018 low. With the cryptocurrency on the verge of a major bull run, one question is on everyone’s mind. Is it too late to invest in Bitcoins?

But fear not dear reader, here we are going to give you some best ways to get Bitcoins for free in 2019 (we are serious). Now full disclosure, it won’t be much so don’t expect to become a millionaire through them, but it’s a start. So without much further ado, let’s see how to get free bitcoins in 2019.

1) Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Faucets

Faucets are special websites that pay you some amount of Satoshi’s (the smallest unit of Bitcoin). Most of the Bitcoin faucets give around 5000 satoshis. But in 2019, this amount is too less to make a transaction. To withdraw that amount, you need to put in $10 worth of Bitcoin in that address. But it’s a start. Do it for 150 days daily and you get yourself a nice 0.01 BTC (or $50) for free.

There are faucets for other cryptocurrencies as well such as Bitcoin Cash, Tron, and some not so well known cryptocurrency which pay a little extra cryptocurrency. Convert those cryptocurrencies for Bitcoins [BTC].

Examples: Search for Bitcoin Faucets on Google.

2) Bitcoin Games

Similar to Bitcoin Faucets, Bitcoin games allow people to earn some free bitcoins (paid in Satoshis) for playing a game and viewing an ad. These games are simple in nature and you can make around 10,000 satoshis per day (or $0.005) playing games.

3) Referrals

This is the easiest and profitable way to get free Bitcoins. Many exchanges, wallets, casinos, etc run their referral programmes which allows you to get up to 50% of the trade fee. So sign-up to a few and convince your friends to use your referrals.

Example: Binance referrals

4) Get Tipped in Bitcoins

Are you an online content creator? Meme creator? Active on Twitter and Reddit? Then this option’s for you to get free bitcoins. Tippin.me is a Bitcoin Lightning service which allows people to Tip content creators in Bitcoin. The tool is really popular with the Bitcoin community and if you have some awesome content/opinion you can post them. If people like what you post, you can make around $10 a day through tips in Bitcoin. This method is really popular these days.

5) Mining

Have an old pc laying around. You can use it to mine cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin mining won’t be possible on an old machine due to high computing requirements, but not so resource heavy chains can be easily mined.

Example: Low resource cryptocurrencies that can be mined are Dogecoin and Monero.

Note: Mining is a process that requires the system to be working on the full capacity for a considerable amount of time. Ensure that your electricity bills do not skyrocket.

Alternatively, if you don’t have a computer lying around you can always use a cloud computer. Signup for Digitalocean and start mining. Do not mine Bitcoin, but less resource hungry currencies.

6) Gambling

Ah, this is not an option to get free bitcoins per se, but if you can win a game you can get double or triple the number of Bitcoins. Some cryptocurrency games, such as roll the dice have a high winning probability but fewer payout rates (like 1.1x or so). You won’t make a considerable amount of money but yes you will get some free Bitcoins.

Most of the casinos in the cryptocurrency community as a scam. We will be taking out a list of top 10 best and trustworthy online casinos.

7) Doing Tasks for Bitcoins

This is also an effective way to get your hands into some good amount of free Bitcoins. Many websites such as Earn.com, or service page on Bitcointalk.org post micro jobs that pay users in Bitcoin. These jobs include smalls tasks such as giving product feedback, sending out emails and market product up.

8) Content Writing and freelancer work for Bitcoins

One of the sure shot ways of making Bitcoins is to become a content writer for various Bitcoin publications. There are also other lucrative jobs that one can do in their free time like logo design, SEO, website design, etc and get paid in Bitcoins.

Go to the subreddit Jobs4Bitcoins to find jobs that pay in Bitcoin.

Example: Blockmanity pays $5 in Bitcoins for every approved article.

Vitalik Buterin, the founder of Ethereum, got Bitcoins by using this method. He used to get 5 BTC ($3.5) for every article he wrote on Bitcoin.

9) Marketing

There are many cryptocurrency related products. And most of them work in a decentralized fashion and are open for remote marketing positions. Ask them for a remote job and get paid in Bitcoins or other cryptocurrencies.

If paid in other cryptocurrencies you can always convert them to get your very own free Bitcoins. Make sure the Cryptocurrency in which you are getting paid has a high liquidity value and is listed on major exchanges like Binance and Bitfinex.

10) Donations

If you have a website or a podcast you can always ask for donations in Bitcoins. They are not free, as you have to work really hard to build a loyal following which will be interested in donating to you. But once done, you can easily make around $1,000 in donations a month.

11) Being a Middleman

A lot of Bitcoin trades happen over-the-counter (OTC). OTC trading means that they are not traded through an exchange but rather in person. If you know a person who is looking to buy a little high amount of Bitcoins (say 4-5) or selling a large amount, you can become a middleman by connecting those two and making sure the trade gets executed. You can get around 10-20% of the entire transaction worth of free Bitcoins.

12) Sell Something for Bitcoins

Again, not a free way to get Bitcoins this does allow you to earn Bitcoins. If you have a good product (or just import some from China) and sell it online through Instagram for Bitcoins. You can make around $300-500 in free Bitcoins.

13) Airdrops

Many cryptocurrencies have Airdrops, which means free Cryptocurrency is given. Two of the best examples of Airdrops is Tron and Stellar. Capture these Airdrops and exchange them for Bitcoins to get free Bitcoins. You can only use this method once or so and you can get around $25 worth of tokens.

Example: Tron (TRX) Airdrops

14) New Signup Bonus

Many cryptocurrency startups give you a Signup bonus. These include exchanges and wallets. Just sign-up to these services and you can $10 of free Bitcoins (or other cryptocurrencies) for free.

Example: signing up for Blockchain.com wallet and verifying your information gets you $25 worth of XLM.

Note: Some services would require you to put initial funds to access your bonus. So please be careful and do not blindly commit to it. 10 minutes of research can help you save your hard earned money.

15) Arbitrage Trading

Arbitrage trading means buying an asset for a cheaper price in one place and selling at a higher price in another place. Due to multiple cryptocurrency exchanges in the world arbitrage trading is the most profitable way to trade. This method of gaining free bitcoins requires you invest some initial amount in Bitcoins. You can earn Bitcoin’s through the above methods and use this form of trading for increasing your asset.

Image Source: Unsplash

Disclaimer: Blockmanity is a news portal and does not provide any financial advice. Blockmanity's role is to inform the cryptocurrency and blockchain community about what's going on in this space. Please do your own due diligence before making any investment. Blockmanity won't be responsible for any loss of funds.

Get the latest news on Blockchain only on Blockmanity.com. Subscribe to us on Google news and do follow us on Twitter @Blockmanity

Did you like the news you just read? Please leave a feedback to help us serve you better