DATE:  08.05.2019, 13:00:45
TITLE: How to Buy Bitcoin SV, Step by Step (with Photos)
URL:   https://www.bitcoinmarketjournal.com/buy-bitcoin-sv/

In November 2018, Bitcoin Cash (BCH) experienced a hard fork after its community could not agree on how its protocol should look going forward. As a result of the disagreements and the following hard fork, a new digital currency named Bitcoin Satoshi Vision (BSV) was born.

In this brief step-by-step guide, you will discover how you can buy Bitcoin SV using US dollars in 2019.

How to Buy Bitcoin SV

While there are a number of exchanges that allow you to buy Bitcoin SV (BSV), for this guide we have chosen the popular digital asset exchange Changelly.com, as it is not only very user-friendly but also supports digital currency purchases using Visa and Mastercard.

Step One: Create a Changelly account.

First, you need to access the Changelly platform. Then, you need to add the dollar amount of Bitcoin SV, which is denoted as BCHSV on Changelly, before clicking ‘Exchange now.’

Next, you will be asked to sign up if you haven’t already or simply to log in if you have already created a Changelly account.

To sign up, you will need to provide an email address and then follow the instruction that will be emailed to you within moments of signing up.

Step Two: Begin your transaction.

Once registered and confirmed, you can proceed to convert your US dollars into Bitcoin SV.

Once you have typed in the US dollar amount – in your example we have used $1,000 – you will see what that equates to in digital currency. In this example, that would be 15.575392 BSV.

Step Three: Type in your wallet address.

Then, you click ‘Next step’ and type in your Bitcoin SV wallet address so that the exchange knows where the funds need to be sent to once the transaction is complete. Here, it is important to ensure that you are typing in a correct wallet address, so double check it before continuing.

(In our example below, we have used the top BSV wallet address from the Bitcoin SV Rich List, so please do not send funds to this address!)

Step Four: Double check the details.

Once you have input your wallet address, check the details of your transaction to ensure all information about the trade is correct.

Step Five: Make the payment and receive your coin.

Finally, you need to make the payment using your bank card and then wait for the transaction to settle. Once the trade is complete, you will find your newly purchased BSV in your Bitcoin SV wallet.

Changelly.com has purchase limitations set that are dependant on your location. Hence, it is important to familiarize yourself with how much you can purchase before transacting on the platform. Small purchases, however, can be instantly executed.

Related Articles:

To learn more about investing in bitcoin, bitcoin forks, and altcoins, subscribe to the Bitcoin Market Journal newsletter today.