DATE:  08.05.2019, 09:30:12
TITLE: PR: Bitcoin.com and Cred Partner to Offer Lending and Borrowing
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-bitcoin-com-and-cred-partner-to-offer-lending-and-borrowing/

PR: Bitcoin.com and Cred Partner to Offer Lending and Borrowing

Bitcoin.com customers to earn up to 10% interest on BTC and BCH

SAN FRANCISCO and TOKYO– Bitcoin.com, the leading source for Bitcoin information with over 4 million Bitcoin wallets, and Cred, the leading provider of crypto borrowing and lending with over $300 million in credit facilities, today announced a partnership that will allow Bitcoin.com customers to earn up to 10% of interest on their Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash.

“At Bitcoin.com, we believe borrowing and lending services are a natural next step for Bitcoin wallet holders and will be very attractive to users of Bitcoin Cash,” said Roger Ver, CEO of Bitcoin.com. “In Cred, we have found a like-minded partner who shares our vision and brings significant experience and a solid track record in offering reliable, secure crypto backed lending and borrowing services to the crypto community.”

“We’re thrilled to offer Bitcoin.com customers the opportunity to earn interest on their digital assets,” said Dan Schatt, Co-founder and President of Cred. “Whether the market is up or down, customers can benefit from the liquidity they receive when obtaining a fixed amount of interest in Stablecoin. Customers also benefit by receiving the full upside on the amount of crypto they originally committed.”

Customers of Bitcoin.com will be able to commit to a six-month term and have the option to rollover assets for additional periods. Customers receive the best rates when staking Cred’s LBA token. No account minimum is needed and interest is paid out in Stablecoin every three months. The principal is paid back in the crypto amounts that were initially received.

Cred and Bitcoin.com will be available at the Consensus New York conference and will be offering Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash holders with $25,000 or more in assets and an opportunity to participate in the new program. The program will be opened in the summer of 2019 to all users, regardless of asset size.

Cred is backed by some of the largest investors in crypto and tech including 500 Startups, Arrington XRP Capital, Blocktower, FBG Capital, and Binance Labs. Cred is also a founding member of the Universal Protocol Alliance, a board member of the Blockchain Advocacy Coalition.

About Cred:

Cred is a decentralized global lending platform that facilitates open access to credit anywhere and anytime. Founded by former PayPal financial technology veterans, Cred has secured over $300 million of lending capital with offices in San Francisco and Shanghai. Cred’s mission is to harness the power of blockchain to allow everyone to benefit from low-cost credit products. Cred brings together a diverse team of entrepreneurial leaders, machine learning, and the power of blockchain technology. For more information, visit mycred.io or follow us on Twitter, LinkedIn, or join our community on Telegram.

About Bitcoin.com:

Bitcoin.com is your premier source for everything Bitcoin related. We help you buy, use, and store your Bitcoin securely. You can read the latest news or engage with the community on our Bitcoin forum. We also provide helpful tools and real-time market price and chart information, as well as Bitcoin mining and Bitcoin events information.

Press Inquiries:

Cred: meghan@mycred.io

Bitcoin.com: editor@bitcoin.com

Supporting Link

https://earn.mycred.io/bitcoin