DATE:  08.04.2020, 23:04:21
TITLE: 6 Bitcoin trading tips and common mistakes
URL:   https://www.jbklutse.com/6-bitcoin-trading-tips-common-mistakes/

To trade better, it is necessary not to repeat earlier mistakes. So, as traders, you have to identify the areas where you may be going wrong and seek to rectify these shortcomings. Below are highlighted some of the best Bitcoin trading tips and important mistakes that one should avoid:

1. It is necessary to know how to place orders properly. Value of any crypto coin depends on supply and demand and last-executed transaction between parties. These demand and supply orders are arranged in what is called an order book. So, every time you enter a trading position, you must set a price sell level at which you will take profits and exit the trade. You should have a stop-loss order so that you can minimize your losses. The best way to know where to place such orders is by identifying your support and resistance areas. For this, you need to learn the art of technical analysis. If you find that the support level breaks down, the time has arrived to cut down losses.

2. Letting your emotions get in the way when you do Bitcoin trading can be the worst mistake. This rule applies to all traders, but those trading for short-term should be particularly wary of this. For instance, if you find that the Bitcoin price has suddenly crashed by nearly 40% over 3 days, the time is ripe to buy some more coins. But few traders may get cold feet and refrain from buying as they are afraid of losses. If you happen to be one of those, you should really rethink your career as a Bitcoin trader.

3. Another common mistake that many traders make is that they feel that when a coin’s price has gone down, it will eventually rise. But this is not always the case. You can never be sure that a coin having a lower price than its highest price is to be looked upon as a chance for investment or if it is a falling knife that you must never try to catch. Some coins have even disappeared completely and are no longer traded continuously.

4. If you have to be successful as a Bitcoin trader, you must devote a lot of time and energy to understanding how the market behaves. If you feel confident to dive right into the crypto market, be sure to follow it closely every hour. Not all traders are capable of playing this game well. So, day-trading is not for everyone, and it may be safe to invest in the long-term. If you do not find time to trade bitcoin manually, you can make use of automated trading bots such as immediate edge to carry out the trade autonomously. These bots are effective and help even beginners to trade like a pro.

5. The crypto market is extremely volatile and putting your eggs in one basket is never going to pay off. It is best to spread your investments across various crypto assets. That way, you can avoid losing everything if any of the assets fail to perform up to your expectations.

6. Trading without a plan is a common mistake by traders of cryptocurrencies. You need to have a proper plan in place, identifying your risks and strategies for trading. It is best to stick to the tried-and-tested strategies and choose to use a demo account first before going live.