DATE:  08.04.2020, 06:08:42
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino Adds Crown & Anchor Slot Machine by EvoPlay
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-crown-anchor-slot-machine-by-evoplay/084206

Crown and Anchor by Evoplay takes you back to the 18th century when betting was simple and fun. The slot is available at www.Bitcoincasino.io. You have to match one or more symbols on the mat to get awarded wonderful prizes. With a 92.13% RTP, you are assured of regular payouts whenever you throw the dice. So get ready to win the amazing payouts by throwing the dice as you angle for big wins.

Theme and Graphics

EvoPlay has always ensured that the best games are delivered to players and Crown and Anchor is an example of their expertise. This is a medium variance slot and will award different payouts. As usual, any game which is developed by EvoPlay is suitable for all players and Crown and Anchor is no exception. It will offer regular payouts between dice throws and it is recommended for all players. The background of the game is a game board where you have to set your wager. There is also a barrel where the dice will be thrown when playing this game. You will also find a soundtrack which will keep on playing in the background nudging you to continue playing the game. To play this game, you do not have to download any software, you can access the game via your web browser. This is because the game’s graphics are rendered superbly allowing players to load and play the game without any hitches. If you are searching for a different game, and a break to the usual casino games, then this is the game to choose.

Features

When playing this game, you will interact with different characters such as a crown, anchor, diamond, spades, clubs and hearts. All these are card suits except the crown and Anchor. These symbols will pay out different amounts depending on the bet staked. Before you can play this game, you will need to set a wager, you can do this by adjusting your bet using the coin chips at the base of the gameboard. You can set your wager between 0.01 and 1000 dollars allowing you to play within your bankroll. After setting your wager, you will be required to roll the dice. the dice is quite different compared to normal dice. There are 3 dices, to begin with, and they bear the game symbols instead of the normal spots detonating numbers. Whenever you place a bet, the dice will be thrown and the symbol landed on will award a pay if you placed a wager on that particular symbol.

in Crown and Anchor, you will find that there are no paylines. However, you still have multiple opportunities to land a win with each dice throw. You have to match at least one symbol to receive a payout. Watch out for the Crown and Anchor as this is the best symbol in this slot. Depending on your bet they will offer a high payout if you are lucky to land these symbol on the dice faces.

Verdict

Crown and Anchor will always offer a break to players who are tired of playing casino slots. This game gives you the same gaming experience as normal casino slots, however, it is a single gameplay where you have to match the symbols to receive a reward.