DATE:  08.04.2020, 15:35:00
TITLE: Bityard Has Now Officially Launched – Register Now and Earn 258 USDT for Free
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bityard-has-now-officially-launched-register-now-and-earn-258-usdt-for-free/

Bityard Has Now Officially Launched – Register Now and Earn 258 USDT for Free

You’ve heard it first here, Bityard, the world’s leading digital contract trading platform, has officially launched. According to industry authoritative sources, Bityard has received a strategic investment from a US hedge fund worth 10 million dollars, creating a precedent in the industry for complex contracts and simple transactions. At Bityard, our ambition is to foster research and development of relevant forward-looking technology, overseas market expansion, and ecological construction of our brand name.

Bityard was founded in November 2019 and is headquartered in Singapore. It is the world’s leading digital currency contract trading platform, regulated by the American Money Services Businesses, Singaporean Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA), and the MTR of Estonia for the European Union. In Southeast Asia, Bityard will strive to keep up with local digital asset market demand, especially with regards to government-driven blockchain trends. Not only has Bityard attracted attention with secure, simple, and fast digital contract transaction services, but we have also acquired a Thai boxing champion as a brand ambassador of Bityard. He will continue to set off waves of attention in his home country and beyond.

The more turbulent the years, the more volatile the cryptocurrency market. While everyone was still discussing the third halving of the market, the “black swan” event, coughed forth by the fears of the Coronavirus, ruthlessly cut the price of all cryptocurrencies in half, followed by a quick rebound from the lowest point by more than 60%. Contract purchases inevitably will become this year’s most competitive main battlefield on exchanges. As a new entrant, the founder of Bityard knows clearly that in order to gain a solid placement in the highly competitive contract market, innovation must be achieved.

Community of Hidden Potential: Those Who are Eager For “Simplified Transactions”

After much research, it has been found that in the increasingly mature digital currency market, a consumer group with high potential has solidified. They all agree on the concept of contract trading and expect to use leverage to magnify the benefits, but for this group of consumers, contract transactions are complicated. To avoid liquidation, they hesitate to participate in any such transactions. In view of the large number of potential users in the cryptocurrency community craving simple contract transactions and other derivatives, Bityard came in to existence.

Product Concept: Complex Contracts Simple Transactions

Bityard always adheres to the product concept of “complex contracts, simple transactions”, and aims to bring customers the ultimate simple operation experience. Reporters have learned through interviews with product management that the team has done a lot of work to get users up and running quickly.

Opening an account is simple: you only need to register with an email or mobile phone number, and you can become a Bityard user within 30 seconds.

Simplified topping-up: currently bityard supports the use of 6 mainstream digital currencies as a method of refilling a user’s account. Additionally, the Renminbi as well as the Vietnamese Dong are both supported, and there are plans to add more FIAT on-ramps in the future. There is also a system in place to allow transferring of funds between superiors and subordinates which is facilitated by agents.

Simple Trading: simplify the complex trading interface functions. Users can trade from as little as 5 USDT.

In order to provide a fulfilling customer experience, Bityard’s co-branded ambassador announced a fruitful launch of “daily mining” activities. Starting from today, after each user registration, you can get free Bitcoin, Ethereum, EOS, Tron, and more mainstream digital currencies for a value of up to 258 USDT. In addition, you can also get Bityard’s first platform currency BYD. After it has been listed its strengths will be well-established!

For more information consider registering an account at bityard today! Check out www.bityard.com and register an account for your experience and benefit.

Contact Email Address

bd@bityard.com

Supporting Link

http://www.bityard.com

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons