DATE:  08.04.2020, 19:41:57
TITLE: PSE&G says it won’t shut off power if you’re behind on payments, warns of coronavirus scams
URL:   https://www.nj.com/coronavirus/2020/04/pseg-says-it-wont-shut-off-power-if-youre-behind-on-payments-warns-of-coronavirus-scams.html

PSE&G, New Jersey’s largest utility company, is warning customers not to fall for coronavirus scams.

It’s telling customers to be on the lookout for phone scammers who impersonate utility employees.

PSE&G, which donated 50,000 N95 masks to a New Jersey hospital system last month, wants customers to know it will not shut off service for non-payment during the coronavirus pandemic.

“The heightened anxiety we’re feeling is perfect for scammers, whose preferred tactic is to make people panic at the thought of getting their power shut off,” said Fred Daum, executive director of PSE&G Customer Operations. “That’s why it’s important for people to know that, during this crisis, PSE&G is not shutting off power for non-payment due to financial burdens.”

CORONAVIRUS RESOURCES: Live map tracker | Businesses that are open | Homepage

Phone scammers typically tell potential victims that they must pay an overdue bill or face immediate shut off of electricity, the utility advised.

It also said PSE&G does not accept payment via prepaid gift cards, wire transfers or cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin — another common method scammers use to steal your money.

The company explained how these scams commonly work.

Your phone rings, and the caller ID says it’s a call from PSE&G on your caller ID. The caller then threatens to shut off your service unless you make a payment by cash, pre-paid card, wire transfer or Bitcoin.

In another type of scam, the caller says you need a new meter but first, you need to put down a deposit. PSE&G does not require a deposit for a new meter installation.

During either of these scams, the caller may give you another phone number to call. If you do, it will sound similar to PSE&G’s automated call system — but you’re actually calling the scammer.

In yet another scam attempt, a caller will say that because of your good payment history, you’re eligible for a bill reduction or discount. But before you get it, the scammer will ask for your private information.

Here’s what PSE&G will and won’t discuss over the phone, the company said: “A genuine PSE&G representative will ask to speak to the account owner. If that person is available, the representative will explain why they are calling and provide the account name, address and current balance. If the account owner is not available, the PSE&G representative will not discuss the account at all and ask that a message be left for the customer of record to call 1-800-436-PSEG (7734).”

PSE&G also asks customers to visit its website for more information on scams.

Tell us your coronavirus stories, whether it’s a news tip, a topic you want us to cover, or a personal story you want to share.

If you would like updates on New Jersey-specific coronavirus news, subscribe to our Coronavirus in N.J. newsletter.

Have you been Bamboozled? Reach Karin Price Mueller at Bamboozled@NJAdvanceMedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @KPMueller. Find Bamboozled on Facebook. Mueller is also the founder of NJMoneyHelp.com. Stay informed and sign up for NJMoneyHelp.com’s weekly e-newsletter.