DATE:  08.04.2020, 10:51:51
TITLE: Sean Pollock at CoinGeek London 2020: London is the epicenter of BSV
URL:   https://coingeek.com/coingeeks-hannah-jackson-catches-up-with-sean-pollock-at-cg-london-video/

Sean Pollock, the software engineer involved heavily with unwriter’s Planaria, made the trip to the U.K. in February to participate in the CoinGeek London 2020 conference. It was an opportunity to discuss everything the group is working on, and there is definitely no shortage of projects being developed on a daily basis. With things like Bitdb, Bitsock, Bitfs and so much more in the pipeline, it’s never a dull moment for Pollock or the others involved in advancing Bitcoin innovation. Following his on-stage presentation, CoinGeek’s Hannah Jackson caught up with Pollock for a short one-on-one chat about what the Bitcoin community can expect going forward.

For those who may not be familiar with the name, Pollock has a substantial history with Bitcoin SV (BSV). He was one of the first, if not the first, to develop a smart contract system for BSV, which was subsequently acquired by Planaria. As a result, he moved to the company with his pet project, and has been concentrating on building out the backend infrastructure of the blockchain ever since.

The “Bit” projects mentioned above are helping to facilitate data storage and sharing on the blockchain at a level that has never been possible with any blockchain. As the initiatives continue to gain traction and incorporate more data, what will emerge is a database that will be on the same scale as that found with Google.

All of these projects, as indicated, are being developed by Planaria, and third-party entities needed a way to interface with them in order to roll out their own blockchain solutions. Enter Bitbus, which allows the developers to interface with Planaria’s system in order to grab the necessary tools to complete their applications. This facilitates even greater growth of the Bitcoin ecosystem and allows BSV to more efficiently deliver the enterprise-level solutions it has always expected to be able to offer.

After his time on stage discussing how Planaria is growing and how the infrastructure is expanding, Pollock and Jackson met to elaborate on the progress and what lies ahead. Having been able to participate in CoinGeek London was an excellent opportunity for Pollock to interact with several key figures in the Bitcoin community, and network with individuals who will help continue to collectively push innovation on the blockchain.

Planaria continues to drive its development processes and continues to look for new developers that will assist in creating a more robust Bitcoin ecosystem. It’s non-stop work for everyone involved, but the rewards are self-evident. The one area that needs the most amount of work is with scaling capabilities, in the sense of being able to test development faster and introduce proven solutions quickly. Given BSV’s unlimited transaction scaling potential, bringing development scalability up to the same level will help the entire infrastructure mature at a rapid pace.

New to Bitcoin? Check out CoinGeek’s Bitcoin for Beginners section, the ultimate resource guide to learn more about Bitcoin—as originally envisioned by Satoshi Nakamoto—and blockchain.