DATE:  17.02.2020, 16:56:24
TITLE: This Is the Easiest Way to Buy Bitcoin With a Credit or Debit Card
URL:   https://futurism.com/i-want-to-buy-bitcoin

Cryptocurrencies like bitcoin are being accepted as payment by more and more businesses. They’re also becoming more and more popular with investors looking for new and innovative ways to diversify their portfolios. So maybe you’re thinking it’s time to get in the crypto game. But what is the best way to buy cryptocurrencies? The answer, if you want to buy bitcoin with a credit or debit card, is iwanttobuybitcoin.com.

For most of their existence, cryptocurrencies have been viewed as assets rather than actual currencies. The first people to buy bitcoin were maverick investors willing to take a gamble on a volatile market. But today, investing in crypto has become almost mainstream. In fact, some experts think everybody should dedicate as much as five percent of their portfolios to cryptocurrencies.

However, while cryptocurrencies can (or maybe even should) still be considered investment vehicles, big changes are on the horizon. When bitcoin was invented, the dream was that it would one day become an actual currency that people could use to pay for everyday goods and services. In early 2020, that dream will get one step closer to reality when global coffee behemoth Starbucks begins accepting bitcoin as part of a partnership with a new bitcoin payment app.

So if you’re ready to join the cryptocurrency revolution, whether its as an investor, a consumer, or both, the first step is finding a digital exchange that’s right for you. While most digital exchanges charge reasonable transaction fees when you buy cryptocurrencies with cash straight from your bank account, they tend to jack up the fees if you want to use your credit or debit cards. That’s bad news for anyone who’d like to invest in cryptocurrencies while also racking up serious credit card rewards, bonuses, or travel points.

Luckily, there’s iwanttobuybitcoin.

If you want to use your credit or debit card to buy popular cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, Ethereum, or XRP, iwanttobuybitcoin is the cheapest, fastest, and most secure way to do it.

At iwanttobuybitcoin, they make buying cryptocurrencies incredibly simple. Creating an account takes about two minutes. After that you simply select the cryptocurrency you want to buy, choose your amount, and enter your payment info and wallet address. Once you hit submit, the currency will show up in your crypto wallet in just 10 to 15 minutes.

While iwanttobuybitcoin’s transaction fees depend on the size of your transaction, you will always get the most competitive rate. Small transactions usually have fees in the 5-7 percent range, which is way lower than the 10-13 percent their competitors charge. Meanwhile, larger transactions are in the 3-5 percent range. For example, if you purchase $2500 worth of bitcoin with a credit card, your transaction fee with iwanttobuybitcoin would be just $75, which is a full 50-percent less than you can expect to pay at other digital exchanges.

When you buy cryptocurrencies with iwanttobuybitcoin, you can rest easy knowing your money is in safe hands. This is a fully accredited EU regulated exchange that is AML and KYC certified, which means they employ practices designed to prevent fraud, money laundering, and other illegal activities. It’s no wonder they have over 450,000 users in over 170 countries.

So if you’re looking for a simple and affordable way to buy cryptocurrencies with a credit or debit card, iwanttobuybitcoin is for you. Click here to create your account and get in the crypto game, today.

Futurism fans: To create this content, a non-editorial team worked with an affiliate partner. We may collect a small commission on items purchased through this page. This post does not necessarily reflect the views or the endorsement of the Futurism.com editorial staff.