DATE:  30.07.2019, 10:27:27
TITLE: Kraken bitcoin exchange adds new funding options in five major currencies
URL:   https://www.cryptoninjas.net/2019/07/30/kraken-bitcoin-exchange-adds-new-funding-options-in-five-major-currencies/

Kraken, the popular bitcoin and cryptocurrency exchange company, announced that its clients now have new options to deposit and withdraw USD, EUR, CAD, GBP, and JPY globally through Etana Custody

In collaboration with Etana Custody, almost every Kraken client across 180+ countries has access to new funding options in five major currencies – USD, EUR, CAD, GBP, and JPY. The new options are available to Intermediate and Pro accounts (Starter accounts can upgrade to get access).

Funding with Etana Custody on Kraken

To use these new options, first clients must create and verify an Etana Custody Wallet for holding funds. After registering their bank account, clients can wire funds between their bank and their Etana Custody Wallet. Wire transfers between the bank and Etana Custody Wallet are processed within 1-5 days.

The Etana Custody Wallet is automatically connected with the client’s Kraken account and the five major currencies are freely and quickly transferable between accounts.

To deposit, wires are sent to Etana, then quickly credited to the client’s Kraken account. To withdraw, funds are quickly debited from the client’s Kraken account, where they can be held in the Etana Custody Wallet, or wired to the client’s bank account.

Other benefits the Etana Collaboration will provide:

Etana provides currency conversion for many fiat currencies. Clients can wire almost any currency to their Etana wallet, then convert to one of the five major currencies to fund their Kraken account

In cooperation with Etana, Kraken markets are now available through the Meta Trader (MT4 or MT5) trading platforms.

Bank Wires to/from Etana:

Etana charges the following fees for receiving deposits to your Etana account (sent from your bank account) or sending withdrawals from your Etana account (to your bank account).