DATE:  05.08.2019, 20:08:05
TITLE: Bitcoin Price Jumps As Stock Market Dive Fuels Demand For 'Digital Gold'
URL:   https://www.investors.com/news/bitcoin-price-jumps-us-china-trade-war-yuan-devalued/

The Bitcoin price rally took another leap Monday as an escalating U.S.-China trade war weighed on global stock markets, triggering a broad rally in cryptocurrencies.

X

Bitcoin prices soared as much as 14% early Monday before trimming gains to 7% at $11,772 at 4:06 p.m. ET in New York, according to CoinDesk. The largest cryptocurrency regained the 50-day moving average last week amid stock market turbulence.

Along with the Bitcoin price jump, rival digital coins including Ethereum, Litecoin, XRP and Bitcoin Cash also rallied Monday.

The Dow Jones average and major indexes all crashed back below their 50-day lines on Monday after China's yuan fell past 7 per dollar, a closely watched level, for the first time in a decade. China also halted imports of American farm imports, following President Trump's decision last week to slap 10% tariffs on another $300 billion worth of Chinese imports starting Sept. 1.

Trump's latest trade and tariff move may have sparked some flight of capital out of China and driven up demand for Bitcoin as a safe have asset, experts told Bloomberg. Bitcoin is sometimes called "digital gold," enhancing the risk-adjusted returns of traditional investment portfolios.

Lately, Bitcoin prices and other cryptocurrencies have been volatile. They dived June 27 after major crypto exchange Coinbase suffered an outage, but rallied powerfully earlier in the month on news that Facebook (FB) is entering the crypto space.

Bitcoin Price, Bitcoin Stocks Gain

Despite the latest Bitcoin price gain, they previously hit resistance at the $12,000 mark in early July. They are also still well below the high of $20,000 reached in December 2017, just before a stunning collapse in value.

Among Bitcoin- and blockchain-related stocks, Riot Blockchain (RIOT) climbed 1.4% on the stock market today, still below the 50-day line. Overstock.com (OSTK) advanced 2.2% and Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC) rose 3%.

Facebook (FB), which recently unveiled its Libra cryptocurrency, lost 3.9%, losing support at the 50-day.

YOU WILL ALSO LIKE:

Bullish On Bitcoin? Read The Cautionary Tale Of This Blockchain Stock

Bitcoin, Blockchain And Cryptocurrency News

The Next Step In Bitcoin's Evolution: Big-Money Investors Move In

Best Growth Stocks To Buy And Watch: See Updates To IBD Stock Lists

IBD Digital: Unlock IBD's Premium Stock Lists, Tools And Analysis Today