DATE:  05.08.2019, 09:30:40
TITLE: PR: Evercoin Announces $1M Pre-Seed Financing With gumi Cryptos and Prominent Blockchain and Open Source Pioneers
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-evercoin-announces-1m-pre-seed-financing-with-gumi-cryptos-and-prominent-blockchain-and-open-source-pioneers/

PR: Evercoin Announces $1M Pre-Seed Financing With gumi Cryptos and Prominent Blockchain and Open Source Pioneers

Investors include Founder/Executive Chairman of Bitcoin.com (Roger Ver), Founder/CEO’s MuleSoft, and JBoss.

San Francisco, CA – Evercoin announced today $1M in pre-seed stage financing from gumi Cryptos and prominent Blockchain and Open Source pioneers.

Investors in this round include:

Gumi Cryptos Capital

Roger Ver — Founder, Executive Chairman of Bitcoin.com

Ross Mason — Founder of MuleSoft (sold to Salesforce.com)

Marc Fleury — Founder, CEO of JBoss Open Source (sold to Redhat)

John Pigott — Founder, CEO of the ABE Exchange

Eman Pulis — Founder, CEO of Malta Blockchain Summit

The company will use the funding to continue development on Evercoin, the market leading noncustodial mobile wallet-based cryptographic asset exchange. Evercoin already features:

– Self custody (you control the private key)

– Secure key recovery (we never see or store your key)

– Popular coins tradeable in the US including Bitcoin (BTC), Bitcoin Cash (BCH), Ether (ETH), USD Coin (USDC), Litecoin (LTC), Ripple (XRP), Stellar (XLM), Cardano (ADA), Tron (TRX), Dash (DASH), Zcash (ZEC), Ethereum Classic (ETC), Bitcoin Gold (BTG), Qtum (QTUM), Decred (DCR) and Dogecoin (DOGE)

– Buy with USD (fiat) by connecting your bank (available today in 10 US States, rolling out to more.)

– Mobile-first on Android and IOS, download it from http://evercoin.com

“Instant” Exchange (Unless it’s a limit order, orders are fulfilled immediately)

– Noncustodial Limit Orders (you choose the price, money stays in your wallet until your price is met)

“We are proud to welcome a set of extremely strategic investors into our seed round.” said Talip Ozturk, founder and CEO of Evercoin. “These investors represent a tremendous range and depth of experience and deep networks in open source software, Bitcoin and regulatory issues for the cryptographic asset class.”

“Evercoin is a beautifully designed consumer user experience that provides all of the benefits of popular services like Coinbase.” said Ray Zhang, Managing Director at gumi Crypto Capital. “What gets us excited is that it’s the strongest product in the market for delivering those features without compromising on user custody, the most important issue for cryptographic assets.”

About Evercoin

Evercoin is the market leading mobile-first noncustodial wallet and exchange service for fiat and cryptographic assets. Evercoin is based in Silicon Valley and is led by Talip Ozturk, the creator of Hazelcast, a popular open source in-memory distributed database in use at the biggest financial services companies in the world. Having seen the power of open source at some of the largest banks in the world, Talip was inspired to join the cryptocurrency movement which combines his love of open systems and distributed governance with his experience in large-scale high-performance financial infrastructure and distributed computing.