DATE:  09.03.2020, 10:45:16
TITLE: 5 Crypto Cashback Solutions That Award You Satoshis to Shop
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/5-crypto-cashback-solutions/

5 Crypto Cashback Solutions That Award You Satoshis to Shop

Cashback is a popular ecommerce system that administers rewards and rebates for shopping. Every time you shop online, and in some cases in-store, you’ll earn up to 1% of the transaction value back. Traditionally administered in cash or rewards points, certain cashback schemes now dispense rewards in the form of cryptocurrency – or “cryptoback.” These provide a passive way to stack sats while you shop.

Also read: 13 Crypto Debit Cards You Can Use Right Now

Earn Bitcoin for Buying Online With Stormshop

Stormshop is a mobile app integration from microtask and earning platform Stormx. It enables shoppers to receive crypto rewards for shopping online and is available in over 187 countries including the U.S. More than 400 merchants are onboard such as Samsung, Microsoft, Groupon, Macy’s, New Balance and Gamestop. The Stormshop plugin, available for web browsers such as Chrome, Opera, and Brave, and now for iOS and Android on mobile, administers rewards known as Bolts.

Up to 40% is available in crypto cashback, paid in BTC, ETH, LTC, DAI or STORM. Shoppers can swap Bolt rewards points for cryptocurrency, paid to their ERC20 wallet or Coinbase account. Stormx claims to have more than 2.5 million users, having grown to become the best-known and most popular multi-currency cryptoback service.

Stack Sats for Spending With Lolli

Lolli is a BTC-only cashback plugin. Like Stormshop, it operates as a browser extension and disburses rewards in BTC for shopping with qualified retailers. The Lolli browser plugin will notify you whenever you’re shopping at one of its partner stores, which include hundreds of brands such as Expedia, Hotels.com, GAP, Macy’s, and Hilton. Up to 30% in cryptoback is promised, delivered to your Lolli wallet. From there you can send it to your personal BTC wallet or exchange it to USD and have it sent to a bank account. The Lolli extension works for Chrome and Firefox, but unlike Stormshop is not available for mobile.

Get Paid for Using Your Credit Card With Pei

Pei is a cashback system that rewards you in BTC or fiat currency. Unlike Lolli and Stormshop, Pei works with your existing credit and debit card and can thus be used for in-store purchases as well as online. After linking your card to the Pei app and then using it as you would normally, you’ll receive cashback in your choice of BTC or fiat. There’s no membership fee for using Pei, and special offers with selected retailers provide an opportunity to claim additional cashback.

Earn Cryptoback for Shopping With Your Wirex or Crypto.com Card

The other way to earn crypto rewards when shopping in-store is by using a crypto debit card. Two of those recently featured in news.Bitcoin.com’s round-up of crypto cards provide this feature: Wirex and Crypto.com. The former pays out 0.5% in cryptoback, paid in BTC, for in-store purchases, rising to 1.5% if you hold 500,000 WRX tokens. Crypto.com’s MCO Visa card, meanwhile, awards 1-5% in cryptoback for purchases.

Crypto cashback provides a simple yet effective way to passively increase your cryptocurrency balance while going about your daily business. Naturally, there’s a privacy trade-off to consider in linking your crypto proclivities with your consumer spending habits. Given the modest sums of cryptocurrency to be acquired in such a manner, however, you may decide that your penchant for stacking sats in the form of cryptoback is unlikely to draw much heat. Cryptocurrencies give ordinary people a way and a reason to save and crypto cashback provides a tangible use case for digital assets, adding sats to your wallet as you shop.

Do you use crypto cashback services? If so, which ones do you recommend? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Did you know you can verify any unconfirmed Bitcoin transaction with our Bitcoin Block Explorer tool? Simply complete a Bitcoin address search to view it on the blockchain. Plus, visit our Bitcoin Charts to see what’s happening in the industry.