DATE:  09.03.2020, 12:29:52
TITLE: Here is how Bitcoin ATMs represent the future of cryptocurrency | GENERAL BYTES (Czech Republic), Genesis Coin (US), Lamassu (UK), COVAULT (US), Bitaccess (Canada)
URL:   https://www.openpr.com/news/1959353/here-is-how-bitcoin-atms-represent-the-future-of-cryptocurrency

Here is how Bitcoin ATMs represent the future of cryptocurrency | GENERAL BYTES (Czech Republic), Genesis Coin (US), Lamassu (UK), COVAULT (US), Bitaccess (Canada)

"BITCOIN ATM MARKET INDUSTRY GROWTH"

https://www.databridgemarketresearch.com/request-a-sample?dbmr=global-bitcoin-atm-market&skp

https://www.databridgemarketresearch.com/toc?dbmr=global-bitcoin-atm-market&skp

https://www.databridgemarketresearch.com/inquire-before-buying?dbmr=global-bitcoin-atm-market&skp

A Bitcoin ATM (Automated Teller Machine) is a kiosk that allows a person to purchase Bitcoin by using cash or debit card. Some Bitcoin ATMs offer bi-directional functionality enabling both the purchase of Bitcoin as well as the sale of Bitcoin for cash. In some cases, Bitcoin ATM providers require users to have an existing account to transact on the machine.The Global Bitcoin ATM Market is expected to reach USD 147.9 million by 2025 from USD 7.1 million in 2017 and is projected to grow at a CAGR of 56.9% in the forecast period of 2018 to 2025. The upcoming market report contains data for historic year 2016, the base year of calculation is 2017 and the forecast period is 2018 to 2025.Click Here To Get FREE Global Bitcoin ATM Market Research Sample PDF Copy @Key Players: Global Bitcoin ATM MarketThe renowned players in bitcoin ATM market are GENERAL BYTES (Czech Republic), Genesis Coin (US), Lamassu (UK), COVAULT (US), Bitaccess (Canada), Coinme (US), Coinsource (US), Bitxatm (German), Orderbob (Austria), and RUSbit (Russia) and many more.Global Bitcoin ATM Market research report utilizes a SWOT analysis as well as Porter's Five Forces analysis to reveal the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. This report is a valuable source of guidance for companies and individuals offering Industry Chain Structure, Business Strategies and Proposals for New Project Investments. The report provides with CAGR value fluctuation during the forecast period of 2018-2025 for the market. Analysis and discussion of important industry trends, market size, market share estimates are mentioned in the report. The report also studies the various inhibitors as well as motivators of the Global Bitcoin ATM Market in both quantitative and qualitative manners in order to provide accurate information to the readers.Conducts Overall Global Bitcoin ATM Market Segmentation: This knowledgeable market research report offers lucrative opportunities by breaking down complex market data into segments on the basis of Global Bitcoin ATM Market, By Type (One Way and Two Way), Automated Teller Machine Hardware (Display, Printer, QR Scanner) Geographical Segments (North America, South America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa)- Industry Trends and Forecast to 2025.Market Definition: Global Bitcoin ATM MarketBitcoin currency is defined as digital or virtual money in the form of tokens or "coins. It is an Internet-connected kiosk that allows customers to purchase bitcoins with deposited cash. A bitcoin ATM is not the same as an ATM backed by a traditional financial institution or bank. The bitcoin currencies have ventured into credit cards or other projects. The "bitcoin" in bitcoin currencies refers to complicated bitcoingraphy for a particular digital token to be stored, transacted and generated securely. Bitcoin currencies is designed to get free from government control and manipulation and the rising demand of bitcoin currency getting more popular this foundational aspect of the industry has come under fire. The bitcoin ATM include various currencies such as Litecoin (LTC), Ethereum (ETH), Zcash (ZEC), Dash (DASH), Ripple (XRP), Monero (XMR), Bitcoin Cash (BCH), NEO (NEO) and others. Bitcoin currency ATMs also offer an innovative solution to solve one of the world's biggest problems and approximately 2 billion people worldwide and roughly 59% of adults in the developing world don't have a bank account and using Bitcoin currency ATMs.In 2017 Exotel launched bitcoin ATM services for stockbrokers to be SEBI-compliant. It is a bitcoin ATM platform records every single conversation. It helps in business phone system via a virtual phone system.In July 2018, the Bulgaria will be the next nation to have two-way bitcoin ATM machines. A local Bulgarian bitcoin exchange, DG Cash, announced the news on social media that they are launching the new machine on Monday in one of Sofia's most popular shopping centers.In September, 2018, Bitcoin Depot launches 20 Bitcoin ATMs in Southern California. It will increase demand for bitcoin-ATMs are looking to convert physical fiat into decentralized bitcoin currency, money that puts the power into the hands of the people rather than institutions.Market Drivers and Restraints:o Increasing fund transfers in developing countrieso Fluctuating monetary regulationso Increasing installations of bitcoin ATMs in restaurants, bars, general stores, and gas stations.o Uncertain regulatory status of bitcoin currencies.o Lack of awareness and technical understanding regarding bitcoin currencyThis reports includes the following deliverableo Macro Indicator Analysiso Bleaching Agents Market Overviewo Market Dynamicso Drivers, Restraints, Opportunities and Challengeso Market sizing and growth analysiso Global Bleaching Agents Market forecasting to 2025o Market Competitive Landscapeo Product Launches and Pipeline Analysiso Value Chain Analysiso Market Mergers, Acquisitions and Agreementso Company ProfilesThis report scope includes a holistic study of the current dynamics of the market, industry growth and restraints of the Global Bitcoin ATM Market. It provides the market forecast to 2025, recent developments in the market and pipeline analysis of the major players. The report also includes a review of micro and macro forecasts, new entrant strategies, and market penetration strategies with a comprehensive value chain analysis.Table Of Contents: Global Bitcoin ATM MarketPart 01: Executive SummaryPart 02: Scope Of The ReportPart 03: Research MethodologyPart 04: Market LandscapePart 05: Pipeline AnalysisPart 06: Market SizingPart 07: Five Forces AnalysisPart 08: Market SegmentationPart 09: Customer LandscapePart 10: Regional LandscapePart 11: Decision FrameworkPart 12: Drivers And ChallengesPart 13: Market TrendsPart 14: Vendor LandscapePart 15: Vendor AnalysisPart 16: AppendixBrowse FREE TOC with selected illustrations and example pages of Global Bitcoin ATM Market @Market Segmentation: Global Bitcoin ATM Marketo The market is segmented based on type, automated teller machine hardware and geographical segments.o Based on type, the market is segmented into one way and two way.o Based on automated teller machine hardware, the market is segmented into display, printer, QR scanner.o Based on geography, the market report covers data points for 28 countries across multiple geographies such as North America, South America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Middle East & Africa. Some of the major countries covered in this report are U.S., Canada, Germany, France, U.K., Netherlands, Switzerland, Turkey, Russia, China, India, South Korea, Japan, Australia, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, and Brazil among others.Competitive Analysis: Global Bitcoin ATM MarketThe global bitcoin ATM market is fragmented and the major players have used various strategies such as new product launches, expansions, agreements, joint ventures, partnerships, acquisitions, and others to increase their footprints in this market in order to sustain in long run. The report includes market shares of bitcoin ATM market for global, Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and South America. In 2017 Lamassu launched the bitcoin mats industry by creating the world's first bitcoin ATM. bitcoin mats support Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, Ethereum, Dash and Zcash It contain various coins sintra, sintra Forte, Douro II and others.Key Questions Answered in This Reporto What will the Global Bitcoin ATM Market size be in 2025 and what will the growth rate be?o What are the key market trends?o What is driving this market?o What are the challenges to market growth?o Who are the key vendors in this market space?o What are the market opportunities and threats faced by the key vendors?Key reason to Purchase the report1. To describe and forecast the Global Bitcoin ATM Market, in terms of value, by process, product type, and industry.2. To strategically profile key players and comprehensively analyze their market position in terms of ranking and core competencies, and detail the competitive landscape for market leaders3. To describe and forecast the market, in terms of value, for various segments, by region North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC), and Rest of the World (RoW)4. To provide detailed information regarding the major factors (drivers, restraints, opportunities, and challenges) influencing the Global Bitcoin ATM Market growth5. Market Development: Comprehensive information about emerging markets. This report analyzes the market for various trocars across geographies.6. To strategically analyze micro markets with respect to individual growth trends, prospects, and contribution to the overall marketCustomization of the Reporto The report includes the complete segmentation displayed above across all above mentioned countrieso All products covered in the Global Bitcoin ATM Market, product volume and average selling prices will be included as customizable options which may incur no or minimal additional cost (depends on customization)Any Questions? Inquire here before purchase @Key focus of the report1. This report provides pin-point analysis for changing competitive dynamics2. It provides a forward-looking perspective on different factors driving or restraining market growth3. It provides five-year forecast assessed on the basis of how the market is predicted to grow4. It helps in understanding the key product segments and their future5. It provides pin point analysis of changing competition dynamics and keeps you ahead of competitors6. It helps in making informed business decisions by having complete insights of market and by making in-depth analysis of market segmentsOpportunities in the Global Bitcoin ATM Market report1.Comprehensive quantitative analysis of the industry is provided for the period of 2016-2023 to assist stakeholders to capitalize on the prevailing market opportunities.2.Comprehensive analysis of the factors that drive and restrict the market growth is provided in the report.3.Extensive analysis of the key segments of the industry helps in understanding the trends in types of point of care test across regional.4.Extensive analysis of the key segments of the industry helps in understanding the trends in types of point of care test across Global.Thanks for reading this article; you can also get individual chapter wise section or region wise report version like North America, Europe, MEA or Asia Pacific.Data Bridge Market ResearchUS: +1 888 387 2818UK: +44 208 089 1725Hong Kong: +852 8192 7475Email: Corporatesales@databridgemarketresearch.comAbout Data Bridge Market Research:Data Bridge Market Research set forth itself as an unconventional and neoteric Market research and consulting firm with unparalleled level of resilience and integrated approaches. We are determined to unearth the best market opportunities and foster efficient information for your business to thrive in the market. Data Bridge endeavors to provide appropriate solutions to the complex business challenges and initiates an effortless decision-making process.