DATE:  09.03.2020, 16:00:35
TITLE: Square Crypto Handing Out Money to Boost Bitcoin (BTC) Adoption As Ethereum Founder Stands by Jack Dorsey
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/03/09/square-crypto-handing-out-money-to-boost-bitcoin-btc-adoption-as-ethereum-founder-stands-by-jack-dorsey/

‏‏‎

Square Crypto, a subsidiary of payments giant Square, is handing out two grants in an effort to bring more awareness and interest to Bitcoin. One grant will go to to Bitcoin Core developer Jon Atack, and Tankred Hase, a UX-focused Bitcoin developer.

The grants will support the developers to work in their own way. Atack will continue his work on Bitcoin Core. Hase plans to simplify self-custody of small Bitcoin amounts by building a public key server that allows people to send the smallest unit of Bitcoin, satoshis, via text message. He also plans to develop a module that supports the Lightning Network.

Grant time. We’ve got two going out today, plus instructions on how you can get your bitcoin project funded by us. Learn more about our grant process here: https://t.co/AGdq7RpEJv — Square Crypto (@sqcrypto) March 4, 2020

Square and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, who is under fire after Twitter’s shares dropped more than 20% following a revenue miss and a recent trip to Africa, continues to draw support from the crypto community.

Ethereum co-creator Vitalik Buterin is standing behind Dorsey as billionaire hedge fund manager and crypto critic Paul Singer, who has acquired a sizable stake in Twitter, reportedly considers removing Dorsey as head of the company.

I also #StandWithJack. Twitter certainly has flaws but @jack has done a vastly better job than what I expect/fear from a hedge fund appointed CEO swooping in to replace him. Context: https://t.co/GuuWBGLmoj https://t.co/EFUZpYr4b8 — vitalik.eth (@VitalikButerin) March 5, 2020

Buterin joins tech titan Elon Musk and Binance head Changpeng “CZ” Zhao, as well as Twitter employees, to support Dorsey.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

‏‏‎

Featured Image: Shutterstock/areporter