DATE:  06.02.2019, 20:39:00
TITLE: Bitcoin assets worth BILLIONS of pounds are LOST forever when users die
URL:   https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/1083601/bitcoin-news-latest-cryptocurrency-passwords-investors-die-financial-news

Experts say bitcoin users should make their password known to their family in case they die

Bitcoin, a cryptocurrency worth £2,600 per coin, is built on the blockchain - an online database which contains details of all the investor’s transactions. The funds are stored in offline accounts known as ‘cold storage wallets’, meaning they are accessible only by those who know the private keys or passwords - something which can prove to be a headache for the next of kin of deceased investors. The nature of digital currencies means families are having to fight uphill battles to try to gain access to the accounts of deceased loved ones for years after they have died.

Bitcoin is a crytocurrency worth £2,600 per coin

Experts say the best way to prevent family from being embroiled in a bitter fight for inheritance is to use a ‘multi signature’ key which means several people have part of the password. When all parts are assembled, the final code is revealed which releases the funds from the hard-to-hack database. Another option is the ‘dead man’s switch’ which sees assets transferred to a nominated person if the user fails to check in regularly. After his 26-year-old son died in a plane crash in 2013, Michael Moody has spent years battling to gain access to the Bitcoin investor’s fortune.

The founder and CEO of QuadrigaCX, Gerald Cotten died suddenly in December

Michael Moody has been fighting to access his son's funds since his death

With Matthew Moody’s digital wallets locked and Michael left without the passwords to release them, recovering them anytime soon looks an impossible task. Mr Moody says he believes young people who do not know much about the world of digital currencies should be educated about how they can secure the accounts for themselves and also those who will inherit the assets. And investors also face obstacles if the those responsible for accessing digital currencies die, taking the encrypted passwords with them to the grave. A fresh light was shone on this in December when the founder and CEO of QuadrigaCX, Gerald Cotten, died suddenly - the only person who could open thousands of Bitcoin accounts.

Bitcoin funds are stored in cold storage wallets