DATE:  06.02.2019, 15:30:05
TITLE: Scandinavians Can Now Buy Cryptocurrency Within the Opera Mobile Browser
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/scandinavians-can-now-buy-cryptocurrency-within-the-opera-mobile-browser/

Scandinavians Can Now Buy Cryptocurrency Within the Opera Mobile Browser

Opera Ltd (NASDAQ: OPRA), the Norway-headquartered company behind the web browsers used by over 320 million people, now lets users buy cryptocurrency directly within its mobile app. This service is being rolled out in Scandinavia first due to a local partnership.

Also Read: The Daily: F1 Team Gets Crypto Sponsor, Dubai Royal Invests in Digital Assets Fund

Buy Crypto on Opera for Android

The Norwegian browser-maker Opera has announced that its mobile browser, Opera for Android, will enable users to buy cryptocurrencies directly on their smartphones. The app now features a digital wallet top up option via an integration with Sweden’s online cryptocurrency brokerage Safello. The feature is being rolled out in Scandinavia first, and said to be already available in Sweden, Norway and Denmark.

“We think that the next important phase for crypto will come from usage and that for it to reach wider adoption, it has to be easy to buy and easy to use,” said Charles Hamel, Product Lead for Crypto at Opera. ”We believe that the browser will be the entry point for these use cases. Thanks to our partnership with Safello, we are taking one more step towards this vision.”

Crypto at Your Fingertips

Founded in 2013 in Sweden, Safello is regulated as a financial institution and registered with the Financial Supervisory Authority of Sweden. The solution includes verifying users’ identities using Norway’s Bankid and Denmark’s Nemid services. The online brokerage focuses on speed and ease of use, promising that the process of buying cryptocurrency with Safello takes less than a minute. Users also have the option to make payments with credit and debit cards and transfers over local payment networks, such as Swish in Sweden.

Frank Schuil, CEO of Safello, said: “With Safello brokerage on the Opera mobile browser for Android, both new and experienced users can now easily transact cryptocurrencies in the most secure and fastest way possible. The functionality to purchase crypto is right at their fingertips.”

To test the new crypto wallet top up feature in Opera for Android, users in Sweden, Norway and Denmark can download the app from Google Play store.

What do you think about the Opera browser letting users buy cryptocurrency directly from the app? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Satoshi’s Pulse, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.