DATE:  01.03.2019, 15:00:20
TITLE: Get Your Bitcoin Glam On!
URL:   https://blockpublisher.com/get-your-bitcoin-glam-on/

Wear your heart out on your sleeve, better yet, wear you favorite cryptocurrency wherever you want. Don’t know where to look at? We have got you covered.

You don’t have to be trading in cryptocurrency or educating people in order to show your love for it. You just need to be passionate and find a way to showcase your love for it.

Zealots and Villains

A clothing company line that is dedicated to cryptocurrencies. It is time to unleash your “rebellious, DIY attitude of the cryptocurrency cyberpunks”. The designs are inspired to cater to those dedicated to cryptocurrencies and blockchain.

Their range consists of hoodies, short and long-sleeve T-shirts.bearing crypto designs and slogans such as “Satoshi Retirement Club” or “Decentralize or Die”. John Lin is the brain behind this line. The reason for naming it Zealots and Villains was because he saw crypto community split between people trying to make a better world and people just trying to grab something for themselves.

The more I fumbled around with what drove me to make a street wear brand based around crypto currencies, the more I realized that it wasn’t necessarily the coins that interested me, it was rather, the sentiment of the entire concept, wrote Lin.

He created Zealots and Villains to “express his frustration with how our world is being run”. He didn’t want to feel trapped anymore, he wanted to feel free and cryptocurrency is the banner of freedom. There is nothing more liberating than wearing a revolution.

You can order from their website. All items are in the range of US $30 and US $48. They even have free shipping for people living in America!

All Things Decentral

All Things Decentral is another clothing line but they are more than that. They even sell accessories, hardware wallets, art, etc. They even have cute Bitcoin-themed rompers for your little ones. Dress your whole family as a cute little Bitcoin gang and get your Instagram glam on #BitcoinFamily.

Founded in 2015, their mission was to promote decentralization in popular culture with high quality products. They also accept “antiquated payment methods such as PayPal and credit cards” damn at that dig at fiat currency. They also accept most major altcoins such as Dash, ZCash, Monero, Litecoin and Dogecoin.

BitcoinShirt Store

Pretty self explanatory, BitcoinShirt Store is an “online specialized in selling cypherpunk, unique and funky Bitcoin merchandise. Our offer include T-shirts, Hoodie, Coffee Mugs, Hats, Posters and more”

Their items are accepted worldwide and they have very cool stuff that you can checkout. Get yourself a Bitcoin mug and make a statement at your workplace or get comfortable in their Bitcoin Genesis Block Premium Large Sherpa Blanket!

So grab your laptop and bitcoins and update your wardrobe.

Let us know how your experience was in the comment section below!