DATE:  10.01.2019, 11:38:00
TITLE: Bitcoin CYBER-ATTACK WARNING: Security experts warn attack could happen AT ANY TIME
URL:   https://www.express.co.uk/finance/city/1070011/Bitcoin-price-latest-news-cyber-attack-warning-threat-cryptocurrency-tfx

Bitcoin news: Security experts are warning of a cyber-attack on bitcoin

Just days after hackers infiltrated Ethereum Classic, potentially stealing almost half a million pounds in tokens, leading figures in digital security say bitcoin could be next. The problem lies in the underlying technology – blockchain – which many regard as the most sophisticated and impenetrable digital data resource in existence. However, for all its robust security, blockchain has one flaw which has been in its system since the day it was launched 10 years ago as the protocol behind bitcoin. Gareth Niblett said: “It’s not a bug – it’s an actual feature which lays bitcoin wide open to attack.

“It is the Nakamoto consensus mechanism itself and it’s an inherent feature of the proof of work approach which has existed for the last ten years.” Mr Niblett, chairman of the BCS Information Security Specialist Group, warns that the defect in the mechanism is exposed when 51 percent or more of the miners in any crypto pool are untrustworthy. He said: “The people who have cared to understand the underlying tech and protocols knew about it, but it has been lost in the bubble. “This has been a theoretical concern since the beginning but nothing has been done about it because it has this false air of impossibility about it, but the threat is real – this could genuinely happen.”

It’s not a bug – it’s an actual feature which lays bitcoin wide open to attack Gareth Niblett

Mr Niblett explained to Express.co.uk that the enormous cost of an attack will always be considered a barrier to its execution, but the very fact that the inherent feature exists means the possibility of bitcoin being brought down by a cyber attack cannot be ruled out. He said: “They go for the smaller cryptos because they’re easier to target in this way – as we saw last year with Bitcoin Gold and we’ve now seen this week on a fork of Ethereum. “The 51 percent attack on Ethereum Classic would have cost around 5,000 euros an hour, but to do the same with bitcoin would cost millions. “You would need an enormous amount of money in the system and money to carry out the attack, but that’s not really the point – the point is that there are plenty of unscrupulous people out there with enormous amounts of money and this inherent feature exposes a huge security risk. “Bitcoin has many weaknesses in terms of how wallets and exchanges operate, as well as an issue of trust in some of the people who run them – this is a very real risk."

Bitcoin: Blockchain has one flaw, experts say