DATE:  10.01.2019, 14:02:00
TITLE: Bitcoin price news: Why did bitcoin DROP this morning?
URL:   https://www.express.co.uk/finance/city/1070087/bitcoin-price-news-why-bitcoin-drop-falling-btc-usd

The last 12 months have proved tricky for bitcoin, which witnessed BTC lose most of its value. But bitcoin has enjoyed a promising start to the year, with bullish sentiment coinciding with a trading volume spike pushing BTC above the psychologically important $4,000 level. However the token took a sharp southwards on Thursday morning, valued at £2,962 ($3,780) at 11pm GMT, according to CoinBase.com data.

BTC’s rivals bitcoin cash (-12.9 percent) ether (-11.8 percent) and Litecoin (-10.2 percent) were also not immune from the price drop.

There doesn't seem to be any real reason for this drop, neither technical nor fundamental eToro senior market analyst Mati Greenspan

Mati Greenspan, Senior Market Analyst at investment platform eToro, believes today’s fluctuation is no cause for undue concern. “After bitcoin’s leap to $4,000 earlier this week, it seems that we’re now seeing a reversal of this surge which in turn, is also causing XRP and Ethereum’s price to fall. “While bitcoin was unable to hold on to Sunday’s momentum, it’s important to remember that this price decline still remains within the broader $3,000 to $5,000 range, meaning the significance of this should not be overstated. “In my view, there doesn't seem to be any real reason for this drop, neither technical nor fundamental. READ MORE: Will bitcoin CRASH below $4,000 this year?

Bitcoin price news: The last 12 months have proved tricky for the troubled cryptocurrency

Bitcoin price news: BTC's competitors were also not immune from the price drop

“The one interesting thing about this movement is that it seems to be an exact reversal of the surge that happened on Sunday afternoon. “At this point, the gains made since the start of the year have now been reversed and we're back to a neutral 2019." And while no one has been able to explain the precise reason for the unexpected falls, Timothy Tam, cofounder and CEO of the CoinFi crypto research firm, believes he noticed a 40,000 ether transfer into an exchange immediately before the abrupt sell-off. Bitcoin, however, remains up 2.9 percent this year despite today’s sell-off. READ MORE: Cryptocurrency expert reveals why he thinks bitcoin will RALLY this year

Is blockchain technology safe from cyber attacks? The recent Ethereum Classic hack, potentially seeing the theft of £500,000 in tokens, has stocked digital security experts fears bitcoin could be next. Gareth Niblett, chairman of the BCS Information Security Specialist Group believes it is the underlying blockchain technology putting cryptocurrency at risk. Mr Niblett said: “Blockchain has one flaw which has been in its system since the day it was launched 10 years ago as the protocol behind bitcoin. “It’s not a bug – it’s an actual feature which lays bitcoin wide open to attack. READ MORE: Bitcoin WARNING: Don’t be fooled – BTC rally is a false dawn

Bitcoin price news: The flagship crypto remains up 2.9 percent this year despite today’s sell-off

Bitcoin price news: Experts are at a loss to explain the cryptocurrency's drastic drop in value