DATE:  10.01.2019, 10:15:04
TITLE: The Daily: Trust Wallet Adds BCH, 35,000 Merchants Get Access to Crypto Payments
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/the-daily-trust-wallet-adds-bch-35000-merchants-get-access-to-crypto-payments/

The Daily: Trust Wallet Adds BCH, 35,000 Merchants Get Access to Crypto Payments

In today’s edition of The Daily we cover an ethereum wallet that’s added support for bitcoin cash, a deal that grants access to accepting payments in cryptocurrency to over 35,000 merchants, and the latest advancement in cross-chain atomic swaps.



Also Read: Banking Agency Advises European Commission to Assess Common Crypto Approach

Trust Wallet Adds Bitcoin Cash

“As some of you probably have noticed over the past month, Trust Wallet is becoming much more than a simple ethereum and ERC20 wallet. Since our inception around a year ago, Trust has grown to support more than 10 native blockchains, including their native tokens,” the team stated. “We would like Trust Wallet to become your one stop solution for interacting with this new decentralized world, so going forward we will be adding more coins and features to enable our users to fully embrace the seamless experience of having all your tokens, collectibles, dapps and more in one place.”

35,000 Merchants Get Access to Crypto Payments

Quid POS enables transactions between merchants and customers through a proprietary cash register. “For Utrust merchants, Quid POS offers something unique in the point of sale space – transparent transactions utilizing a currency conversion cash register with an affinity for cryptocurrency payments,” said Utrust CEO Nuno Correia. “We speak the same language of trust and this partnership expands both our missions to make cryptocurrency payments accepted universally.”

Atomic Swaps Take Another Leap

“The feature of not having a third party dependency and atomicity is consistent with basic principles of Bitcoin, so the future of atomic cross-chain swaps are favored by the market,” explained the team. “Many mainstream cryptocurrencies have realized atomic cross-chain swap and released their codes. As the cryptocurrency technologies and markets mature, atomic cross-chain swaps will have more application scenarios. For example, cross-chain exchanges of large amount of cryptocurrencies can be completed on the blockchain using this technology, without the need of centralized exchanges which will charge a large amount of fees.”

What do you think about today’s news tidbits? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Satoshi’s Pulse, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.