DATE:  08.07.2019, 21:00:51
TITLE: India Set to Train Police Officers on Crypto Crime Investigation
URL:   https://btcmanager.com/india-set-train-police-officers-crypto-crime-investigation/

India Set to Train Police Officers on Crypto Crime Investigation

In a bid to enlighten high-ranking police personnel on the workings of blockchain technology and equip them with the critical skills required to carry out investigations concerning Bitcoin-linked crimes, India’s national police academy, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA), has introduced a new educational course, reports Hard Fork on July 7, 2019.

India Shutting its Doors to Bitcoin Thieves

Per sources close to the matter, that Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA), an academy that trains officers of the Indian Police Service who pass the nation’s Civil Services Examination, has introduced a new course aimed at arming high-ranking police officers with the knowledge they need to investigate crypto and blockchain-related crimes.

The course, dubbed “Investigation of cases involving cryptocurrencies,” is scheduled to go live later in September 2019 and it will teach participants the legal aspects of digital assets, how to investigate cases involving cryptocurrencies and more.

Only nominated IPS officers that have attained the rank of Additional Superintendent of Police to the Inspector General of Police can take the course. Self-nominations are not allowed.

It’s worth noting that the SVPNP is not the first police force to introduce a training course on blockchain-based virtual currencies.

In July 2018, the City of London’s Economic Crime Academy (ECA) launched a first-of-its-kind educational course on cryptocurrencies called “Cryptocurrencies for Investigators.”

At the time, the ECA stated that the one-day course was aimed at helping officers to understand how to “detect, seize and investigate” the use of cryptoassets.

While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has made life unbearable for crypto businesses in the region through its somewhat draconian policies, citizens remain very much interested in the revolutionary technology despite bad actors fraudulent streak continuing to deceive the average investor.

In November 2018, reports emerged that an Indian businessman had lost about $1.4 million to fraudsters via a scam Bitcoin investment.

Earlier in February 2019, BTCManager informed that Indian authorities had apprehended the creators of “cashcoin,” a fake altcoin that scammed investors of more than $17 million. A fake cryptocurrency-based “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire” game show that defrauded participants of over $250,000 in February 2019 was also crushed by the Mumbai police.