DATE:  26.02.2020, 09:26:59
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds 3 Genie Wishes Slot Machine by Pragmatic Play
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-3-genie-wishes-slot-machine-by-pragmatic-play/265909

3 Genie Wishes is a 5 reel Pragmatic Play Slot with 50 paylines. Playable on all devices from 50p a spin, this Arabian theme game benefits from stacked genie wilds and a Bonus feature where the genius appears from the golden lamp to reward you with small awards, high awards up to 500 times your stake, 10 free spins with raining wilds (wilds added on each free spin) or 6 free spins with sticky wilds. The game can be played on Bitcoincasino.io.

Can a magical Arabian spirit turn your jackpot dreams into reality? That is the goal in Pragmatic Play’s 3 Genie Wishes, a 5 reel, 50 payline slot. This desert trip comes with stacked wilds, instant winning pick prizes of 1x to 500x and free spins with sticky or raining wilds. Rub the lamp, from between 50p and £ 250 per spin on all devices.

Set against a sun-kissed, Arab village backdrop, the reels include lower value A to J symbols alongside a monkey, parrot and a trio of Arab characters offering top-line payouts of 150, 200, or 300 coins.

Better still is the genius who is the wild of the game-he replaces all the other symbols besides scattering and awards payouts of 20, 100 or 400 coins. The genie is able to land completely stacked to turn entire reels wild. He can land on any of the 5 reels, or even on the same spin on multiple reels.

The magical golden lamp is the scatter-you’ll win a payout equal to your total bet as well as trigger the Bonus feature when it landes on reels 1, 3 and 5 on the same spin. The Genie appears mysteriously and gives you a treasure chest, a sack, or an urn. Choose one and the following will be revealed: Small Award-you will be winning a payout equal to your total stake here.High Award-an instant win prize of 10 to 500x your stake.

Free Spins with Raining Wilds-10 free spins are awarded to you with a selection of wilds added at random on each free spin.

Free Spins with Sticky Wilds-choose this and you’ll get 6 free spins. Wilds on each spin are added to the reels at random. Whenever one lands, the remainder of the feature will remain frozen in place.

In both free spin rounds the reels are slightly different-the traditional genie symbol is omitted. As are the dispersions. However, the wilds that hit randomly are a more than adequate substitute. Unfortunately, you can’t retrigger free spins here anymore.

Visually, 3 Genie Wishes is beautifully done-the design has a cartoon look, backed up by an Arab style backing track that gives a nice feel to the song. The range of stacked wilds, instant win prizes and free spins also make a decent combination.