DATE:  26.02.2020, 12:48:19
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Fire Blaze Tsai Shen’s Gift Slot Machine by Playtech
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-fire-blaze-tsai-shens-gift-slot-machine-by-playtech/481912

Although surprisingly simple to play, Fire Blaze: Tsai Shens Gift Slot is a rather intriguing slot game with an RTP of 96.5%.

Fire Blaze Tsai Shen’s Gift Slot includes an impressive selection of bonus features that includes scatters and free spins. Also, the game contains a grand jackpot worth 2000 the stake.

This game is a high-volatility slot. This means that players need to wait a bit longer than average for a win in order to get a huge reward, rarely seen among other slots with a lower volatility rating.

Fire Blaze: Tsai Shens Gift has become one of the most popular Playtech’s slots from the first day of its release. The game is inspired by the Chinese God of Wealth, Tsai Shen. If someone can pull the strings of destiny and make you earn some big bucks, it’s this guy. Tsai Shen usually appears around Chinese New Year, awarding those who are worthy of his attention with riches.

This is a game about wealth, so it is natural for it to include some key cash-related symbols. In general, most of the symbols included in this game are related to Chinese culture and tradition.

The game is set in a bright tone, brimming with colors and stunning visuals. Symbols are nicely designed too. Fire Blaze Tsai Shen’s Gift includes Chinese symbols such as imperial coins, lanterns, jades, a cherub-faced young child riding a fish and, of course, Tsai Shen.

The game is a simple slot, easy to set up and play. The players choose how many lines they want to play and the buttons for reducing (or increasing) the total bet are visible and clearly marked on the control panel, next to the spin button.

In order to get a reward, players need to match three to five symbols on the reels. By using scatters or wilds, players can further improve their bonuses.

Bitcoin Casino (https://www.bitcoincasino.io/) has recently acquired this game and placed it on its site. As one of the friendliest casinos around, Bitcoin Casino always strives to help newbies to get settled. The site regularly updates its portfolio, so, if you are looking for the hottest titles on the market, visit it and make an account now. At Bitcoin Casino, Fire Blaze Tsai Shen’s Gift awaits you, along with plenty of other hottest titles.