DATE:  26.02.2020, 14:17:42
TITLE: Bitcoin.com Taps Crypto2Cash to Increase Liquidity
URL:   https://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/news/bitcoin-com-taps-crypto2cash-to-increase-liquidity/

Digital asset liquidity provider Crypto2Cash on Thursday announced its partnership with Bitcoin.com to provide its users cash-out services.

As seen on its website, the Dutch service provider supports a total of 29 fiat currencies, including the US dollar, Canadian dollar, Swiss franc, euro, Thai baht, and Japanese yen.

In addition to the long list of currencies, the platform also supports a few other currencies, including Chinese yen, Indian rupee, and dirham on request.

The supporting digital asset option on the platform is, however, limited with only three leading cryptos – Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, and Ethereum. However, given the crypto-to-crypto pairs on the exchanges against the three digital currencies, these options seem enough.

Commenting on the prospect, Pieter Jan Datema, founder of Crypto2Cash, said: “Users of Bitcoin.com can use Crypto2Cash to cash out their cryptocurrencies in a fast, secure and user-friendly environment This increases their financial freedom. We see ourselves as one big digital ATM. In today’s world, you still need fiat currencies to pay the bills.”

Suggested articles How to Navigate a Crisis and Weighing the Potential of ForexGo to article >>

Registered in the Netherlands, the platform is working according to the latest European compliance laws for know-your-customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML).

A dominant player in the crypto industry

Roger Ver-led Bitcoin.com offers diverse crypto-related products, including exchange services, mining pools, crypto wallets, and even gaming platforms. Its mobile wallet is one of the oldest and widely used crypto wallets with around 10 million users.

Though established as a diverse crypto platform and propagating for Bitcoin Cash development, Bitcoin.com entered into the crypto trading business last year.

Meanwhile, Bitcoin.com is also increasing its stake in the crypto ecosystem through investments and acquisitions.