DATE:  26.02.2020, 05:54:15
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Barnyard Twister Slot by Booming Games
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-barnyard-twister-slot-by-booming-games/541505

The game Barnyard Twister looks interesting when you come across it for the first time. Now, thanks to Bitcoin Casino, all slot lovers can enjoy the game.

This game comes with amazing graphics and a story line that’s reminiscent of the tornado in cult classic, Wizard of Oz. The features that come with the game are also unique, and all users are bound to enjoy it.

This slot machine comes with five reels and twenty five lines and offers potential wins as high as $400,000 for every spin. With double and regular symbols, scatters, a Rotator bonus and free spins, the slot stands out impressively.

You’ll find the Up and down arrows close to the total bet display which you should make use of. These arrows can adjust the values of the bet for subsequent spins. The game ranges from $0.25– $50 and you have the option of spending a maximum of $2 for every line.

Now that double symbols have been introduced, this slot can pay combinations that have about ten symbols in them. Sometimes, their values can be as high as $16,000 for every line or 8,000 coins in some instance.

The Barnyard Twister slot can be played on 5 x 5 reels, and there are twenty five lines which you can use to form combinations. When you come across a symbol with an animal in it, it is counted as one symbol. If you come across two animals it counts as two symbols in a combination. You get the highest reward when you get five double symbols, because it’s seen as 10 symbols in one combo.

The 3rd reel is where you can have scatters, and it is enough to get the 3 FS logo – for you to activate three free spins. The problem is there’s no way to reactivate the free spins, the moment they’ve been gotten.

The game also has a Rotator feature, and it’ll activate through twister icons (3, 4 or 5 special symbols). The number decides if you get 2, 3 or 4 rotations, correspondingly. The moment the regular wins are, you’ll discover the game area revolves at 90o clockwise, to get a new round of wins. Regular symbols are replaced by special symbols replace after one rotation. This completes payline wins.

The slot comes in form of a farm. The problem is that the animals living on the farm are facing grave danger. There are cute critters in shapes of cube that are looking like cartoons makes the game a lot of joy to look at.

There are sheeps, cows, pigs and chickens for the main symbols, together with the scatter logos and twister and in addition to Royals. The image chosen for the backdrop shows the farm’s fields.

Barnyard Twister is quite impressive and offers excellent features, in addition to its great graphics. The game is quite enjoyable, especially with double symbols that allows you form big wins.