DATE:  26.02.2020, 13:02:57
TITLE: Conor McGregor to Appear on Blockchain-Based Collectibles by UFC?
URL:   https://www.coinspeaker.com/conor-mcgregor-blockchain-ufc/

UFC has signed a partnership with CryptoKitties creators to run blockchain collectibles with prominent UFC fighters such as Conor McGregor or Joe Rogan on Ethereum.

The team responsible for CryptoKitties – the biggest Ethereum Dapp out there – is now working on a new entertaining product, together with the UFC.

Dapper Labs, the creator of CryptoKitties, definitely knows how to bring the Ethereum powered products right to the wide audience. After releasing one of the most famous blockchain-based game, they ink partnership with the UFC. UFC and Dapper will create an ultimate digital collectible set available on the blockchain.

Within CryptoKitties, users are trading the cats between each other. Back in 2017, when the app saw the market, it was loading Ethereum’s blockchain hard. Some analysts even noticed congestion in block production.

Conor McGregor Will Appear on UFC Cards?

The UFC managers are leveraging the talented coding team to create sports cards with famous UFC fighters, including legends like Conor McGregor. The cards will appear via the Dapper Labs Flow app, which raised $11 million in investments before launch. The customers and UFC fans can buy, store, sell any sport-related virtual tokens and assets. Since you can put any type of coin or token on a blockchain, it is not a very hard task for talented people to put fighter cards there.

Roham Gharegozlou, Dapper Labs CEO, stated:

“Flow makes it easy for any developer to build blockchain apps, games, and digital assets to power them. Working with the UFC, we are showing what’s possible when you give an engaged fanbase a real ownership stake in the game they love and the communities they’re a part of. ”

Not the first time UFC inks partnership with notable blockchain developers. Previously, Litecoin proponents were sponsoring one of the events. The Litecoin logo was featured on one of the many expensive advertising areas of UFC 23.

Former UFC fighter and now a prominent podcaster, comedian and commentator Joe Rogan consider Bitcoin as a very interesting invention. He has ‘Bitcoin guru’ Andreas Antonopoulos among his friends. Andreas has been attending Joe Rogan Experience several times to discuss the blockchain technology in simple terms. Considering that Joe is a fan of both Conor McGregor and Bitcoin, he would presumably admire UFC’s intent to bring blockchain closer to fighting sports. UFC typically invites fighters who perform mixed styles, such as boxing, grappling and so on.

UFC fighter Ben Askren is a big cryptocurrency fan, however, he presumably dedicates more time to trading and less to training. During his last fight, the opponent knocked him out five seconds after the start.

Author: Jeff Fawkes Jeff Fawkes is a seasoned investment professional and a crypto analyst. He has a dual degree in Business Administration and Creative Writing and is passionate when it comes to how technology impacts our society.