DATE:  26.02.2020, 09:10:18
TITLE: UK’s Top Regulator Suffers Critical Data Leak (But Thinks It Can Regulate Cryptocurrencies)
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/uks-top-regulator-suffers-critical-data-leak-but-thinks-it-can-regulate-cryptocurrencies/

The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the top regulator in the United Kingdom, has just admitted to accidentally revealing the confidential information of around 1,600 individuals — yet it still thinks it is competent enough to regulate cryptocurrencies.

In an embarrassing fiasco, the UK’s top regulator has revealed it has compromised the identities of some 1,600 people in the country. The FCA published names, addresses, and phone numbers on its own website in a complete lapse of judgment.

FCA Leaks Personal Info

As reported by the Guardian, the personal data was published in November but the incident was only revealed by the FCA yesterday.

Can the FCA Be Trusted to Regulate Cryptocurrencies?

BeInCrypto has previously reported on the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority, responsible for proposing and instituting cryptocurrency-related regulations. For example, last month the FCA announced that all British companies working with crypto-assets would now fall under its supervision. It also unveiled this month that cryptocurrency-related businesses would have to pay a £10,000 fee if they hit a certain profit threshold.

The FCA also has a history of being hostile to cryptocurrencies in some cases as well. It has openly considered bans on cryptocurrency-based derivatives. In some cases, the rhetoric against cryptocurrencies was more extreme.

Although the FCA hopes to ‘regulate’ the global cryptocurrency marketplace, it seems that it is unable to even get its own house in order. Given the compounding complexity of the blockchain space, can the regulatory authority really be expected to give cryptocurrencies a fair shake?

The recent fiasco points illustrate the FCA’s deep incompetence and ultimately bodes poorly for the future of cryptocurrency-related regulation in the United Kingdom.

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.