DATE:  26.02.2020, 08:00:31
TITLE: USD Bullish Break and Retest » BitcoinerX
URL:   https://bitcoinerx.com/price-analysis/bitcoin-price-analysis-btc-usd-bullish-break-and-retest/

Bitcoin recently busted through a descending trend line resistance on its daily time frame but looks prime for a pullback after reaching the $10,500 mark. Applying the Fib retracement tool shows where the next potential support areas are.

The 61.8% level seems closest to the broken trend line resistance, which might now hold as support around the $8,000 mark. Price is currently testing the 38.2% Fib that lines up with the 100 SMA dynamic inflection point while a deeper correction could still last until the 50% Fib near $8,500.

On the subject of moving averages, the 100 SMA crossed above the 200 SMA to confirm that the path of least resistance is to the upside or that support levels are more likely to hold than to break. Stochastic is still heading lower, though, but the oscillator is dipping close to the oversold region to indicate bearish exhaustion. Turning back up could confirm that buyers are ready to return.

Bitcoin might see a rebound over the next few days if coronavirus concerns linger in the markets. Although China has been reporting a declining number of fatalities, the attention is now on the growing number of cases and deaths outside of the country. South Korea, Italy and Iran are at the forefront of the virus outbreak headlines these days.

On the other hand, a return in risk appetite could once again spur a big rebound in stocks and commodities, which would then lead traders to dump their bitcoin holdings in favor of traditional assets. News highlighting how authorities are keeping the contagion in check or how more stimulus efforts could be unveiled might bring back optimism in the financial markets as these did so in the past weeks.

Keep in mind also that some progress on Facebook’s Libra is also weighing bitcoin down these days as this could be the biggest threat to the cryptocurrency.

Images courtesy of TradingView