DATE:  09.04.2020, 16:03:13
TITLE: Author ‘Rich Dad Poor Dad’ says that gold, silver and Bitcoin are out of the system
URL:   https://winkreport.com/author-rich-dad-poor-dad-says-that-gold-silver-and-bitcoin-are-out-of-the-system/

Millionaire businessman and author of the book Rich father, poor father, Robert Kiyosaki, mentioned Bitcoin (BTC) multiple times in a podcast interview with Morgan Creek Digital co-founder, Anthony Pompliano, and referred to the asset as an escape.

“The reason I endorse Bitcoin is because it is for one reason only: you are not part of the system,” said Kiyosaki. “It’s a division between government and my money,” he added with a laugh, referring to the feeling Pompliano has expressed many times.

Throughout the interview, Kiyosaki has gone through many concepts through the lens of someone who was said to be enlightened about what he called an engineered system.

Kiyosaki referred to the current US economic struggle along with government solutions, such as bailouts.

“The Fed is not a bank, it is a cartel owned by the richest people in the world, which we will never see,” he said, referring to books called The Creature From Jekyll Island, and Giants grunch. “The men who own the Fed control the world,” Kiyosaki added.

“The pandemic is probably real,” Kiyosaki said of coronavirus. “But then you get so desperate that you take the money,” he added, referring to various US government efforts, such as incentives for citizens. “It’s communism,” he added.

Kiyosaki pointed to gold, silver and Bitcoin as ways of escaping inflation and the reportedly controlled system currently facing difficulties.

“The reason is that you are leaving the central banking system – you are outside the system,” he said. “That’s why I say that gold and silver are the money of God and Bitcoin is the money of open source people,” he added.

However, Kiyosaki is a bit of a polarizing figure in general, with several YouTube videos and articles questioning his claims and concepts.

The published author also made headlines a few days ago when he posted multiple tweets promoting Bitcoin.

Register for our groups Facebook and Telegram and stay tuned.