DATE:  09.04.2020, 11:41:18
TITLE: Celebrities who have embraced the crypto/blockchain industry
URL:   https://invezz.com/news/2020/04/09/celebrities-embraced-crypto-blockchain-industry/

The crypto and blockchain industry has attracted numerous celebrities.

The list of celebrity crypto enthusiast is growing rapidly.

Promoting cryptocurrencies through celebrities could make the sector mainstream.

Since its launch, the crypto space has been reeling in adopters from all walks of life. Keen to leverage the benefits of cryptocurrencies, renowned celebrities also began hopping on to this bandwagon to avoid being left out.

While most celebrities shied away from supporting the crypto industry at first, this is no longer the case. The number of celebrity crypto enthusiasts has been growing rapidly. This population includes famous individuals in the sports, music, acting, and tech sectors among others.

While the nascent sector offers numerous perks to celebrities, the relationship is mutually beneficial. This is because celebrities have millions of followers both online and offline. As such, they are a powerful avenue that could help the crypto industry become mainstream.

The celebrities that have fully embraced the crypto and blockchain industries include,

Lionel Messi

Who does not know Lionel Messi, a football superstar? On December 8, 2017, Sirin Labs unveiled that it had appointed Messi as its brand ambassador. After he posted that he was happy to join the blockchain revolution on Facebook and Instagram, he potentially invited his fans to go the blockchain way too.

The great LEO MESSI has seen the #Blockchain light 💡

Welcome to SIRIN LABS LEO 👋👏🤝 #messi #ethereum #cryptocurrency

Join our Telegram community to learn more – https://t.co/E6GG8U2zp7 https://t.co/XkjBe7QVBh — SIRIN LABS (@SIRINLABS) December 8, 2017

Luis Suarez

Suarez is a football star who plays as a striker for FC Barcelona and Uruguay’s national football team. On August 25, 2017, he started promoting an Ethereum-based prediction platform dubbed Stox. In so doing, Suarez invited his 24.2 million followers to help him “build the best prediction market in the world”.

Floyd Mayweather

Mayweather is a boxing champion and like Suarez, he also promotes Stox. Apart from the Ethereum-based prediction platform, he backed Hubii Network’s ICO. He teamed up with Hubii for this deal three days before his historic fight with Conor McGregor on August 26, 2017. As a result, he marketed the Hubii Network to his followers; 13 million on Facebook, 19 million on Instagram, and 8 million on Twitter.

Mike Tyson

Mike Tyson is a boxing legend well-known for his ferocious boxing style. He joined hands with Bitcoin Direct in 2015 to launch Bitcoin ATM, which reportedly completes a transaction in less time than Tyson knocked out an opponent. While rolling out the ATM line, Tyson noted that he was elated to join the Bitcoin revolution, potentially influencing millions of his fans to do the same.

Ashton Kutcher

Kutcher is a bit-time Hollywood actor and a significant technology investor. He first tweeted about blockchain technology, Ethereum in specific, in 2014. At the moment, he is an investor in Bitbay exchange. Also, his company, Sound Ventures backed Unikrn, a blockchain-based eSports betting platform in 2015. As such, Kutcher could potentially influence his followers; 18 million on Facebook, 2.5 million of Instagram, and 19 million on Twitter to join the crypto space.

Jamie Fox

Jamie Fox is an Oscar award-winning actor, singer comedian, and producer. He joined the crypto space by promoting Cobinhood’s initial coin offering (ICO) in 2017. He tweeted that he was eager to participate in the ICO that would help build an exchange that does not have trading fees. In so doing, he marketed the crypto sector to his approximately 5 million fans.

The Game

He is an American rapper who owns a marijuana dispensary in California. Apparently, the blockchain leaves no stone unturned when it comes to disrupting legacy industries. The Game’s interests aligned with those of Paragon, a blockchain firm that seeks the revolutionize the marijuana industry. This saw him become a board member of the company. He shared the news of working with Paragon via a tweet, attracting the attention of his more than 1 million followers.

Preparing a cannabis revolution with blockchain. @JessVerSteeg and I will tell you more about our upcoming ICO on August 15th @paragoncoin pic.twitter.com/xjGS9qAEF2 — The Game (@thegame) August 10, 2017

DJ Khaled

DJ Khaled is an American DJ, record executive, songwriter, record producer, and media personality. DJ Khaled touted the ICO of Centra, a blockchain firm that created a token dubbed CTR. In his Instagram post, he held a Centra titanium debit card. He claimed that the card was the ultimate winner in cryptocurrency debit cards. In doing so, he advertised the project’s ICO to his 8.5 million followers.

Nas

Nas is an American rapper, songwriter, entrepreneur, and investor. While he still makes hip-hop music, he is a serious investor. This path saw him invest in more than 40 startups. One of the startups he invested in was San Francisco-based Coinbase exchange. At the moment, Coinbase is the leading crypto exchange in the US.

Redfoo

Redfoo was part of the American electronic dance music duo dubbed LMFAO. A 2018 report unveiled that he had started working for Ethereum as a coder. His love for the blockchain industry also saw him donate several personal items for the TokenStars Crypto Christmas Charity Auction.

Mel B

Mel is an English songwriter, singer, rapper, and TV personality. She was among the first celebrities to take note of the potential of cryptocurrencies. In 2013, she became the first musician to accept Bitcoin as payment for her music. According to her, Bitcoin united her fans across the globe. While other artists, including 50 Cent followed this trend, she remains the pioneer.

The bottom line

With each passing day, more celebrities continue joining the crypto space. The most recent celebrity crypto enthusiast is Kris Humphries, a former NBA player that was once married to Kim Kardashian. He pledged his support for Chainlink on April 7, 2020.

Do you think partnerships between celebrities and crypto firms could be the key to making crypto mainstream? Share your thoughts in the comment section below.