DATE:  09.04.2020, 21:00:45
TITLE: Charles Hoskinson Offers Ideas On Satoshi Nakamoto
URL:   https://www.livebitcoinnews.com/charles-hoskinson-offers-facts-on-satoshi-nakamoto/

As the co-founder of Ethereum, Charles Hoskinson has always held a top spot in the crypto industry.

Hoskinson Offers Another BTC-Related Dish

Recently, Hoskinson was one of a few investors to suggest that bitcoin could reach the six-figure range in the year 2020. Alongside individuals such as Ross Ulbricht of Silk Road fame, Hoskinson was quick to suggest that the world’s number one cryptocurrency by market cap could potentially hit $100,000 by the time the year was finished.

Given that bitcoin has been incurring a series of heavy losses over the past few weeks thanks to growing fear and panic spawned by the coronavirus pandemic, it doesn’t look like that prediction is going to come true anytime soon. For bitcoin to accomplish such a feat, it would have to add more than $90,000 to its price within eight months, but hey… Anything is possible, right?

One of the big mysteries surrounding bitcoin regards its creator, the elusive Satoshi Nakamoto. As the author of the initial bitcoin whitepaper that emerged during the peak of the financial crisis in 2008, Nakamoto is widely credited for giving birth to what would ultimately prove to be one of the world’s most influential – and controversial – tradeable assets.

He is also widely credited as being the father of cryptocurrency, given that there could never have been assets like Ethereum, Ripple or Litecoin without bitcoin.

For years, many have wondered who this man could be. Hoskinson now says he has a way of deciphering Nakamoto’s real identity. He calls this new method “stylometry,” and says that the methods utilized to analyze authors’ writing styles can potentially be used to uncover the truth behind Nakamoto.

In an interview, he explains:

You can apply stylometric techniques to that code and apply it to all the open-source projects that have ever been written and there’s a very high probability you’re going to find a match between that code and other code.

Looking at the BTC whitepaper, Hoskinson believes Nakamoto could be either in his 50s or 60s, and that he was likely educated during the 1980s or 90s. He also believes Nakamoto is an academic and not an engineer. He attributes this to the code structure of bitcoin, which he thinks would be a lot “cleaner” if an engineer had handled it.

At the same time, Hoskinson – despite offering all this information – says he’s not interested in potentially moving further in the matter, as he doesn’t quite see the point in uncovering the mystery. However, he will allow analysts and traders to do what they will with the data he provides.

Why Go Through All This?

He comments: