DATE:  13.11.2019, 16:15:34
TITLE: 2 New Blog Sites That Allow Users to Earn Cryptocurrencies
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/2-new-blog-sites-that-allow-users-to-earn-cryptocurrencies/

2 New Blog Sites That Allow Users to Earn Cryptocurrencies

During the last few years, cryptocurrency enthusiasts have explored blogging and content publishing websites that are powered by digital currencies. Recently, two new publishing websites that utilize cryptocurrencies have been gathering traction. The crypto powered blogging platform Publish 0x pays users to read content and blog using 11 different digital assets. The website Read.cash is a Bitcoin Cash-centric platform that lets people write articles with videos and images in order to earn BCH.

Also read: Walk Like Nakamoto: 7 Anonymous Personalities in the Crypto Space

Read.cash: A Bitcoin Cash-Powered Blogging Platform

Blogging sites are very popular and many believe content publishing and cryptocurrencies go hand in hand. There have been platforms like Yours, Steemit, Mamby, Sola, and Honestcash but so far among the myriad of attempts, none of the publishing portals have gained the momentum captured by incumbent blogging sites.

This week news.Bitcoin.com looked at two relatively new content publishing portals that allow users to be rewarded in digital currencies by participating. The first is Read.cash, a blogging platform that was revealed a few weeks ago and has quickly become a favorite among BCH proponents. The project’s creator notes that Read.cash was just recently launched and there are still a few features coming in the future according to the platform’s roadmap.

“If you are a writer or creator of any kind – write an article about something interesting, add images and video — Anyone who upvotes your post will send you bitcoin cash to your online wallet and you can use it to buy stuff,” the Read.cash website FAQ explains. The message adds:

If you are a reader, you can support the authors you like by sending them money via the upvote button. 90% goes to the author, 10% goes to read.cash to support the development and promotion of the platform.

Signing up for Read.cash is easy and after registering, a bitcoin cash wallet is created in your browser. The creators of the project “prefer to stay anonymous for now” and private keys are kept in the user’s browser only. “The upvote payments are done peer-to-peer on Bitcoin Cash blockchain,” the blogging site’s creators detail. Alongside this, newcomers to the website can peruse through the list of guides that explain how people can format posts with images and videos. Looking at the blogging site’s main feed shows that BCH fans are using the platform regularly with posts covering a lot of different subjects.

Publish 0x: A Crypto-Agnostic Publishing Platform Open to Select Authors

Another blogging website that rewards users in BCH and 10 other digital currencies is the platform Publish 0x. Essentially the publishing application lets people earn crypto for creating, reading and watching content. Currently, the “earn by blogging” aspect of Publish 0x is still in beta and to become a publisher users will need to gain an invite.

Publish 0x supports a variety of different digital assets like BTC, BCH, BNB, BAT, and LTC. According to the Publish 0x team, the platform paid out $14,500 in digital currencies in October and within that pool of funds, 32 BCH was dispersed. According to the user FAQ, when tipping, both the reader and author earn crypto and tips are free for both types of users as well. The creators stress on the website that “Publish0x is not trying to become a social network.” Instead, the focus is aimed at producing quality content and Publish0x “is a publishing platform open to select approved authors.”

“Other ‘crypto blogging’ platforms are powered by their own token only,” the Publish0x website FAQ emphasizes. “[These platforms] claim to be decentralized when really the balance of power lies with the founders and the biggest holders of their own token. We will be crypto agnostic.”

Just like digital currencies, in time publishing platforms that allow users to be rewarded will change the way blogging sites work. Blogs and content publishing platforms bring people together and for readers and writers, it alleviates some of the stresses tied to real life. Instead of centralized institutions like Facebook or Medium profiting from user content, crypto-powered blogs and social media empower the community. Publish0x and Read.cash are two different platforms that provide people with the ability to earn crypto for providing quality content. If a user’s content is valuable, digital currency-powered blogs can provide them with the unique opportunity to directly monetize content.

What do you think about the Read.cash and Publish0x blogging platforms? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer, solicitation or a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, websites, software, services, or companies mentioned. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Read.cash, and Publish0x.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.