DATE:  26.03.2019, 14:09:59
TITLE: Bitcoin Sv Gets Listed On Cryptocurrency Exchange, Cryptofacil As BSV Price Holds Support Bitcoin Cash Sv Price Prediction: Bitcoin Sv Gets Listed On Cryptocurrency Exchange, Cryptofacil As BSV Price 
URL:   https://smartereum.com/49546/bitcoin-cash-sv-price-prediction-bitcoin-sv-gets-listed-on-cryptocurrency-exchange-cryptofacil-as-bsv-price-holds-support-bitcoin-sv-news-today/

Months after the Bitcoin Cash hard fork war, there are still some who don’t know what Bitcoin SV is despite all the hype from Craig Wright and his Bitcoin SV development team. Just in case you’re one of those people, let’s answer the question. What is Bitcoin SV or Bitcoin Cash SV? Bitcoin SV is the cryptocurrency that was created during last year’s Bitcoin Cash hard fork war when the development team refused to come to a consensus about the network update. This led to a chain split into Bitcoin Cash ABC (current Bitcoin Cash), and Bitcoin SV. Since then, Bitcoin SV has been making steady progress in the cryptocurrency space.

Bitcoin Cash SV Price Prediction: Bitcoin SV Listed On Cryptocurrency Exchange Cryptofacil

This morning, new cryptocurrency exchange Cryptofacil announced Bitcoin SV is now available for trading. While this is not a Bitcoin SV Coinbase listing. It is still a big deal. Getting a Coinbase listing is the American dream for every cryptocurrency. While Coinbase is yet to fully list Bitcoin Cash SV, the listing on the Latin American based exchange is a step in the right direction. It shows that Bitcoin SV is slowly solidifying its stake and gaining more adoption in the cryptocurrency market.

Cryptofacil didn’t just list Bitcoin SV, it also paired it with 5 different currencies including BTC, ETH, the USD, and USDT. After the announcement, the press asked the exchange representative why they decided to add the Bitcoin SV token. In reply, the representative said;

“BSV is a top 15 token as far as market cap and has a large community that supports its vision and technology.”

Even if the Bitcoin Cash Sv community is being led by one of the most controversial figures in the space, Craig Wright, it has a strong list of believers backing it. Like them or hate them, Craig Wright and the rest of the Bitcoin SV community have done a lot of work to promote the adoption and development of the Bitcoin SV token. The exchange continued;

“We are a Bittrex partner and work very closely with their Digital Assets team. We saw the trading volumes of the different BSV pairs and wanted to allow our users also to be able to trade them.”

In the Bitcoin SV news, the exchange also said that the low cost of transaction on the BSV network is another factor that influenced their decision to list the token. Since the company operates in areas full of unbanked people, adding tokens that are affordable to transact is a good strategy. This is another reason why the exchange is launching a special offer in April.

Bitcoin SV Price Prediction: Bitcoin Cash SV Price Today

Keep in mind that Bitcoin SV is an acronym for Bitcoin Satoshi Vision. It’s proponents claim that it is the only Bitcoin in existence that currently applies the original protocol of Satoshi Nakamoto, the anonymous creator of Bitcoin. In the fight to become the one and only Bitcoin, Bitcoin SV is competing with Bitcoin Cash, Bitcoin Core and Bitcoin Gold.

Bitcoin Cash (BCH) Price Today – BCH / USD

Name Price Bitcoin $6,852.95 Bitcoin Cash $219.59

While Bitcoin SV isn’t anywhere near Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash per price and market capitalization, it has found relative stability in recent time. The Bitcoin Cash SV price prediction which was negative for a long time is now positive. At the time of writing, Bitcoin SV was trading at $64.1. This shows that it is down by 1.52% against the USD and up by 0.29% against BTC. The 24 hour trading volume is $115,627,423 and the market capitalization is $1,133,917,873 per Coinmarketcap.com.

From today’s Bitcoin SV news, what do you think about the listing of Bitcoin SV and the Bitcoin Cash SV price prediction? Share your thoughts in the comment section.