DATE:  20.02.2019, 04:20:16
TITLE: Bitcoin Cash Merchant Acceptance Is Thriving in These 3 Regions
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-cash-merchant-acceptance-is-thriving-in-these-3-regions/

Bitcoin Cash Merchant Acceptance Is Thriving in These 3 Regions

Bitcoin Cash supporters are all about spreading adoption, and many enthusiasts are relentlessly trying to get people to try BCH and merchants to accept the cryptocurrency for payments. Right now, there are three regions in the world with a significant number of BCH merchants: Slovenia, North Queensland, and Japan, areas which continue to add a slew of new brick n’ mortar stores every day.

Also read: Regulations Have Ruined the Physical Bitcoin Industry

Three Regions With Lots of Bitcoin Cash Accepting Merchants

Bitcoin cash merchant acceptance is growing. According to Marco Coino, there’s close to 1,000 retailers willing to accept BCH as a means of payment for goods and services. These merchants can be located all around the world and each country displays the number of retailers who accept BCH in the region. As BCH merchant adoption continues to grow, there are three specific regions in the world that have dense populations of retailers accepting the decentralized cryptocurrency.

Slovenia

At the moment, the Republic of Slovenia has the most merchants that accept bitcoin cash. According to geo-mapping application Marco Coino, the sovereign state located in southern Central Europe has 207 active BCH retailers who accept the cryptocurrency for payments. Slovenia has always been known for doing business as the country is in the middle of important European cultural and trade routes.

The country has always been crypto friendly as well and most of the BCH merchants can be found in in the capital of Ljubljana, home to an area that is known as ‘Bitcoin City.’ BCH accepting merchants in Slovenia include the Asan Chill & Lounge Room, the Malibu Bar, AHZ Design, Venera Shop, the Blackout Bar, Potokar, Hot Horse, Soba’Room promenade bar, and Blockmaster.

North Queensland

Many bitcoin cash fans are probably familiar with the name North Queensland because residents have posted so many many stories about the region’s BCH acceptance, it’s hard not to notice them. At the time of writing, this northern region of Australia is home to 56 BCH accepting merchants. North Queensland has a large Bitcoin Cash meetup, and the area also hosted the country’s first BCH-only automated teller machine.

Right now BCH supporters can purchase meals, get their car fixed, and even get work done on their home by paying for the services in BCH. Merchants accepting BCH in the northern part of the Australian state include Bel Paese Pizzaria, Elements Studio, RJ’s Mechanical, Dawson Moving & Storage, FNQ Computers, and Toasted Bean Coffee. A denser area of North Queensland BCH-accepting retailers is located in the middle of Condon, Kelso, and the Townsville Conservation Park.

Japan

Ever since Japan legalized cryptocurrency payments, the region has become a digital currency hub. Japan also has a ton of BCH merchants that accept the cryptocurrency for goods and services. According to the Marco Coino application, there are roughly 56 BCH accepting merchants in Japan.

Retailers accepting the cryptocurrency here include the Village Hostel Namba, Hikari Clinic, Ruins Minakami, Good Heavens, Rakan, Yakitori Wine Bar, Ginza Secret, Organic Hair Salon, So Law Office, Cafe de Perle, Soul Food House, and Two Dogs Taproom. The Tokyo BCH meetup is extremely large as well, as the group currently has 1,253 members. One member of the Japanese BCH community is Akane Yokoo, a passionate supporter who is responsible for spreading a lot of merchant adoption throughout Tokyo.

Spend & Replace: Kickstarting the Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash Evolution

Other global runners up that are densely populated with BCH-accepting retailers include the U.S., Colombia, Barcelona, Belarus, and London. Bitcoin cash merchant adoption continues to thrive and the many retailers listed on Marco Coino does not include the vast array of merchants using Bitpay and Coinbase merchant services. Many BCH supporters believe in the idea of “spend and replace” when it comes to using the decentralized cryptocurrencies. Supporters believe a deflationary currency can still be spent and replaced over time in order to kickstart its evolution as a solid means of exchange. At the moment Slovenia, Japan and North Queensland BCH supporters are taking the lead by continuously spreading more adoption and merchant acceptance.

What do you think about Slovenia, North Queensland, and Japan having the most BCH merchants today? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Marco Coino, Twitter, and r/btc.

Have you seen our widget service? It allows anyone to embed informative Bitcoin.com widgets on their website. They’re pretty cool, and you can customize by size and color. The widgets include price-only, price and graph, price and news, and forum threads. There’s also a widget dedicated to our mining pool, displaying our hash power.