DATE:  20.02.2019, 13:47:37
TITLE: Ethereum Creator Vitalik Buterin Reveals his Crypto Holdings which Include Dogecoin, Bitcoin cash (BCH), Zcash (ZEC) and others
URL:   https://blockmanity.com/news/ethereum-creator-vitalik-buterin-reveals-his-crypto-holdings-which-include-dogecoin-bitcoin-cash-bch-zcash-zec-and-others/

On a Reddit AMA session published on February 18th, the Creator of Ethereum (ETH) Vitalik Buterin and other Core developers disclosed their Cryptocurrency holdings.

Hudson Jameson from the Ethereum Foundation posted a thread named “Ethereum Leadership and Accountability” where the core developers and researchers had a dialogue with the ETH community and shared their Cryptocurrency holdings to share any conflict of interests.

A majority of Vitalik’s holdings are in Ethereum (ETH), he also disclosed the non-Ethereum tokens he holds which include: Bitcoin Cash (BCH), Bitcoin (BTC), Dogecoin (DOGE), Zcash (ZEC) representing less than 10% of his ETH holdings.

He also holds small-cap tokens including the decentralized exchange token Kyber Network (KNC), the decentralized stable coin governance token Maker (MKR), decentralized payment network platform OmiseGo (OMG) and Decentralized Prediction marketplace (REP) which combined constitute less than 10% of his ETH holdings.

Vitalik is also an advisor and shareholder in two startups: Clearmatics which is developing clearing machines for OTC markets and StarkWare which is working on STARK zero-knowledge protocol. Buterin also discloses that he has a non-financial interest in “some non-token Ethereum ecosystem orgs (eg. L4, Plasma Group, EthGlobal, EDCON) and non-token non-Ethereum orgs (mainly professional cryptography and economics circles)”

Other core researchers like Justin Drake and Martin Swende also disclosed their Crypto holdings and financial interests. Drake said that 99% of his holdings are in Ethereum which he also uses as collateral on Maker Dao. Martin disclosed that 95-99% of his holdings are in Ethereum and the rest in Bitcoin (BTC), Zcash (ZEC), SIA and some other Eth related tokens.

Recently Afri Schoedon who was a long time Ethereum developer quit working on ETH and left the community, the developer decided to leave after getting caught up in a controversy which started with a meme he posted Twitter about a third party Blockchain solution Polkadot.

I did not quit social media, I quit Ethereum. I did not go dark, I just left the community. I am no longer coordinating hard-forks, building testnets, or contributing otherwise. I did not work on Polkadot, I never did, I worked on Ethereum. I did not hate Ethereum, I loved it. — Afri (@5chdn) February 19, 2019

The self-disclosure of the financial interests especially of the major figureheads in the community who are responsible for some of the key decisions is definitely a step in the right direction.

Also Read:

Disclaimer: Blockmanity is a news portal and does not provide any financial advice. Blockmanity's role is to inform the cryptocurrency and blockchain community about what's going on in this space. Please do your own due diligence before making any investment. Blockmanity won't be responsible for any loss of funds.

Get the latest news on Blockchain only on Blockmanity.com. Subscribe to us on Google news and do follow us on Twitter @Blockmanity

Did you like the news you just read? Please leave a feedback to help us serve you better