DATE:  31.10.2019, 11:36:03
TITLE: Bitcoin Group (ETR:ADE) Shareholders Have Enjoyed A Whopping 436% Share Price Gain
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/bitcoin-group-etr-ade-shareholders-113603277.html

While Bitcoin Group SE (ETR:ADE) shareholders are probably generally happy, the stock hasn't had particularly good run recently, with the share price falling 18% in the last quarter. But over three years the performance has been really wonderful. In fact, the share price has taken off in that time, up 436%. Arguably, the recent fall is to be expected after such a strong rise. Only time will tell if there is still too much optimism currently reflected in the share price.

View our latest analysis for Bitcoin Group

We don't think that Bitcoin Group's modest trailing twelve month profit has the market's full attention at the moment. We think revenue is probably a better guide. Generally speaking, we'd consider a stock like this alongside loss-making companies, simply because the quantum of the profit is so low. For shareholders to have confidence a company will grow profits significantly, it must grow revenue.

Over the last three years Bitcoin Group has grown its revenue at 51% annually. That's well above most pre-profit companies. And it's not just the revenue that is taking off. The share price is up 75% per year in that time. Despite the strong run, top performers like Bitcoin Group have been known to go on winning for decades. So we'd recommend you take a closer look at this one, or even put it on your watchlist.

You can see how earnings and revenue have changed over time in the image below (click on the chart to see the exact values).

XTRA:ADE Income Statement, October 31st 2019 More

Balance sheet strength is crucial. It might be well worthwhile taking a look at our free report on how its financial position has changed over time.

A Different Perspective

Bitcoin Group shareholders are up 5.6% for the year. Unfortunately this falls short of the market return of around 9.9%. At least the longer term returns (running at about 75% a year, are better. Even the best companies don't see strong share price performance every year. Shareholders might want to examine this detailed historical graph of past earnings, revenue and cash flow.

Of course, you might find a fantastic investment by looking elsewhere. So take a peek at this free list of companies we expect will grow earnings.

Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on DE exchanges.

We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material.



If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. Thank you for reading.