DATE:  05.03.2019, 22:00:36
TITLE: Twitter is Overflowing With Love for Bitcoins
URL:   https://blockpublisher.com/twitter-is-overflowing-with-love-for-bitcoins/

Jack Dorsey and his undying love for crypto in late 2017-18 has turned him into a legendary figure for the Bitcoin holders over the world. Elon Musk and him are the two reckless buyers of bitcoin. Musk holds Bitcoin giveaways for users while the other has out pour of love for crypto.

Dorsey not only loves cryptocurrency but also has mountains of faith in it.

Dorsey’s Social Climb in the Crypto Space

Only recently, Dorsey has went on from being a nobody into the top leagues of cryptocurrency community. Here’s his story of how he made it to the top.

It all started from Joe Rogan’s podcast. Though they were not discussing cryptocurrency in specific but after having discussed a number of subjects, Rogan who had previously shown interest in Bitcoin, mentioned Square’s crypto integration and Dorsey’s comments on how BTC is a universal phenomena. The Twitter CEO stated that the internet will have one, native currency and that “will likely be Bitcoin”.

It is something that was born on the internet, that was developed on the internet, that was tested on the internet. It is of the internet.”

His proud, optimistic statement had a snowball effect and now he is an important figure. After appearing on Rogan’s show he took to his own platform to publicly accept a Lightning Network transaction, picking up the so-called Trust Chain torch in a show of affection for the scaling solution.

It was clear that Dorsey loved the currency but we were unaware to what extent his personal wealth was in cryptocurrency. He mostly just said “enough“. But what was enough? What is enough for the CEO of Twitter?

But all our speculations were cleared when in a recent interview he told us about his accumulation strategy.

In a discussion with Marty Bent who hosts “Tales From The Crypt,” Dorsey gave a thirty minute interview regarding Internet’s money.

TIL @jack is maxing out the weekly $10k BTC buy limit. I guess smart money has been loading up on cheap BTC all along. https://t.co/zs1R04zn45 — girevik (@girevik_) March 4, 2019

Yeap, he buys $10,000 worth of Bitcoin each week. Doing some maths, he purchases $520,000 Bitcoins each year. This isn’t a large amount in comparison but we know that Dorsey is in it for the long-haul.

His only reason for having so much faith in cryptocurrency is centered around that the Internet needs a currency and BTC is it’s best bet!

The internet has always wanted its own currency but it hasn’t had the technology (right principles, uniform, passionate early adopters) until 10 years ago.” via @NewsBTC

Dorsey’s habit has turned into a worldwide trend, trending under the hashtag of #stackingstats (Stacking Satoshis). Every week participants over the world post their weekly purchases of BTC. Dorsey, who wasn’t the one who started it, has also joined in on the fun last weekend by posting an image of a BTC purchase on his company’s own application, Square Cash.

So if you have A LOT of money, or not quite frankly, what’s stopping you from joining in on the #stackingsats trend??