DATE:  25.11.2019, 12:12:47
TITLE: Gocrypto SLP Token Starts Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/gocrypto-slp-token-starts-trading-on-bitcoin-com-exchange/

Gocrypto SLP Token Starts Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange

On 25 November 2019, the Gocrypto (GOC) token will start trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange. The new SLP token enables merchants with physical or online stores to accept instant crypto payments from different digital wallets with millions of users and to receive settlement in their local fiat.

Also Read: Crypto Payments Startup Eligma Raises €4 Million From Bitcoin.com and Pangea Blockchain Fund

Gocrypto SLP Token Debut

The native token of Eligma, formerly known as ELI, is now called the Gocrypto token (GOC) and its about to be listed on the Bitcoin.com Exchange following a successful migration to the Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) token system on the bitcoin cash blockchain. The listing will enable millions of BCH community members to access the GOC token, which is one of the four cryptocurrencies that can be used for shopping at any of the more than 620 Gocrypto spots in several countries that accept the Bitcoin.com Wallet as well as the Elly app.

Danish Chaudhry, COO of the Bitcoin.com Exchange, commented: “We are thrilled to partner with Eligma to make their token Gocrypto available on our exchange. Bitcoin.com Exchange and Eligma share the same vision of making crypto more accessible. The team behind Gocrypto has impressively onboarded hundreds of merchants to crypto, which makes us very excited for the future.”

Bitcoin.com Exchange was launched earlier this year as an easy-to-use trading platform that offers world-class security and a powerful trading engine. The venue has a wide variety of trading pairs like litecoin (LTC), ripple (XRP), tron (TRX), zcash (ZEC) and denominated markets with base currencies such as tether (USDT), bitcoin cash (BCH), and bitcoin core (BTC). The platform employs institutional-grade encryption, two-factor authentication (2FA) and IP whitelisting to keep user accounts secure at all times.

Gocrypto Goes Global

Eligma helps businesses accept cryptocurrencies as payment in a way that they are familiar with, without being exposed to the volatility of the crypto markets or to the regulatory and tax uncertainty that currently exists when receiving crypto in many countries. The service is already used in Slovenia, Croatia and Turkey by hotels, shops, restaurants, sports facilities and a range of service providers, including for flight tickets, taxi rides and car rentals. The option for merchants to accept crypto in addition to fiat is also in development. On the shoppers’ side they just need to scan a purchase QR code with a digital wallet, select the desired cryptocurrency and confirm the transaction.

Recently Eligma completed a €4 million funding round with participation from Bitcoin.com and Pangea Blockchain Fund to help with its global expansion plans. The availability of GOC at the trading platform will be instrumental in introducing the token to millions of new crypto users and communities which can help spread adoption of the system around the world.

“Entering Exchange.Bitcoin.com with our brand new GoC token is not only a new chapter in the history of our native token, but also one of the landmarks of a world expansion of our Gocrypto payment solution,” Eligma CEO Dejan Roljic stated. “Bitcoin Cash is the most popular currency used by shoppers at Gocrypto spots, and we hope that the GOC token on the BCH blockchain will prove just as useful with its numerous advantages. Gocrypto is namely evolving into an international crypto payment scheme, connecting crypto users, wallets, merchants and cashier systems worldwide. It currently supports the Bitcoin.com Wallet and Elly, but we aim to open the door to other wallets in the near future.”

What do you think about the Gocrypto SLP token trading on the Bitcoin.com Exchange? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.