DATE:  21.02.2020, 19:32:28
TITLE: Winklevoss Twins Net Worth 2020
URL:   https://alongtheboards.com/2020/02/21/winklevoss-twins-net-worth/

Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, known as the Winklevoss Twins, got their fame by the fact of being the world’s first Bitcoin billionaires. They asserted to own 1% of all the existing Bitcoins as early as 2013, which puts them together at a worth of more than $1 Billion. In 2004, they gloriously reported Mark Zuckerberg, the CEO of Facebook, with the case that potentially could bring them $65 million settlement. The lawsuit reason is a famous movie from 2010, The Social Network, where the actor Armie Hammer plays the role of twins. Stay tuned and find out more details about these two celebrities.

Early life

Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss were born on August 21, 1981, in Southampton, New York. Their father, Howard Winklevoss, is a reputed academic and entrepreneur. Brothers had a sister as well, Amanda, who passed away in 2002 at the age of 23. They spent the educational years in Greenwich, Connecticut, where they both attended the Greenwich Country Day School and later Brunswick High School.

In 2000, they both started economy studies at Economics at Harvard. They both completed studies and graduated in 2004, getting B.A. degrees in Economics. For their post-graduation studies, they registered at Oxford University’s Said Business school in 2009. In a year time, they had completed their MBAs. While on this additional study at Oxford, they were competing in the Oxford-Cambridge Boat Race.

Facebook case

In 2004, extravagant brothers, along with Divya Narendra and the ConnectU platform, filed a case against Facebook for violation of a contract. The lawsuit was claiming that Mark Zuckerberg, the owner of Facebook, renewed an oral agreement and copied the origin code of the ConnectU platform, which he was expanding for the twins and used the same to create his social network.

The case was closed in February of 2008 for a total amount of $65 Million for the benefit of brothers. The ConnectU internet domain address got switched off. Anyhow, in 2010, the persistent twins were chasing Facebook with another accusation. This time the problem was in securities deception on account of the incorrect appraisement of Facebook shares used during the calculation of the compromise offer. $25 million out of the $65 Million agreement offer were in cash; the rest $45 Million was in shares, which the Winklevosses and Narendra reported as particularly miscalculated. In this case, the 9th U.S. circuit of appeals ruled against them.

Blockchain technology career

These two celebrities first came in touch with Bitcoin for their holiday time in Ibiza in 2012. The digital currency was presented to them by their friend, and it caught their attention. They showed interest and signed in for buying Bitcoin, and at the same time, they were going deeper into the entire concept of Blockchain technology. This kind of business-suited them ideally, since they grew up next to noted entrepreneurial – their father and their economic education and knowledge were very useful.

They began by investing in a lot of Bitcoin-related companies and services – Xapo, a Bitcoin wallet and vaulting service, a software firm, 21, and a lot of other endeavors.

The most significant step to the Bitcoin glory was in March of 2013 when they decided to buy 100,000 Bitcoins. The twins were purchasing Bitcoin before this time, beginning the previous year when the price of Bitcoin was still in the single dollar digit. Winning a $65 Million worth case from Facebook where $25 million was in cash out of that amount, was good reason enough to make them invest $11 Million in Bitcoin.

In November of 2017, the price of Bitcoin was around $11,300, which gave the conclusion that the two brothers had become Bitcoin billionaires. The value of their 2013 investment has rapidly and massively grown by more than 10,000% in a bit longer than four years. The price of Bitcoin was continuously rising during the last few weeks of 2017, almost hitting the $20,000. They are officially the only Bitcoin billionaires besides the anonymous Satoshi Nakamoto, the creator of Bitcoin.

These are highlighted quotes from famous brothers:

“My favorite toy as a kid was Legos. I loved building things, and that’s what we are doing with SumZero.” “When you have a lot of talent, you don’t necessarily have to be gracious and consider everyone.” “We have elected to put our money and faith in a mathematical framework that is free of politics and human error.”

Winklevoss Twins Net Worth 2020

As of 2020, the Winklevoss brothers have an estimated net worth of $1.45 billion.