DATE:  19.03.2020, 06:44:47
TITLE: Vaizle Review: Lifetime Appsumo Deal For $69.00
URL:   https://somaliupdate.com/vaizle-review-lifetime-appsumo-deal-for-69-00/

Vaizle Review: Vaizle is a competitive social media analytics tool for startups and enterprises who need actionable social media insights. It allows marketers to improve their social media performance by identifying gaps and opportunities. Use Vaizle to create customizable white-labeled reports, perform competitive analysis, and see the top posts and most popular hashtags of your competitors.

The biggest benefit we’ve enjoyed with Viazle is being able to monitor the effectiveness of our posts versus that of our competitors and testing… we’ve been able to make a few pivots and stay on top of our game.Pros: It’s so simple and easy to use there was no learning curve… I was able to dive in and get to work. Really love being able to see what and how our competitors are doing so that we can enhance our game.. Viazle makes that easy to do.Cons: Honestly, I haven’t had any disappointments in using Viazle. Everything is front and center in the dashboard.

Buy Vaizle Lifetime Deal For $69.00

“Ideal solution for social analytics & strategy planning”

I use a variety of reporting apps, but none of them report Instagram very well. Vaizle solved that problem for me and now allows easy, board level reporting on Fb, Twitter and Instagram – as well as providing a deeper dive and actionable insights for the social media teams. It pulled reporting and analytics of my clients main social profiles into one place. I use a variety of reporting apps, but none of them report Instagram very well. Vaizle solved that problem for me and now allows easy, board level reporting.Cons: No scheduled reporting mechanism. So all reporting has to be manually undertaken. Altho, this is still very quick to achieve so it’s not much of a con really.

Vaizle Review – $69 Appsumo Lifetime Deal

VAIZLE is a cloud-based social media analysis and reporting tool for those who need actionable insights in the simplest possible way when benchmarked against its competitors. We have challenged the status quo by the way of designing its algorithms in a way that enabled. When you talk about social media analytics, all you get is pie charts, bar graphs, and line graphs. And to make sense of it and deduce insights, it takes a lot. That not only makes social media analysis time consuming but also complex. We wanted social media analysis to be simple—something that not only displayed data but also delivered actionable insights.

Vaizle Review

Pros: Super useful if you are looking for in-depth analytics and reporting! Competitor tool is great as well. This tool is a must for improving your social profiles (yours and/or your clients´). It saves you so much time and it is really easy to get running. No more struggling and putting pieces together from complex FB reports.

Cons: Was a little disappointed how quickly you get through the 25 profiles, track a couple of competitors and if you enter all their social media you have used up a good chunk. For an agency, you would have to get a bigger plan. But looks like a good deal at the moment. With that being said, it’s clear this is a new product and is still a work in progress. It shows a lot of very promising signs, particularly in the “Smart Insights” tab.

Vaizle

Vaizle is a handy social media analytics tool that is specifically designed for brands, agencies, and influencers. It functions as a single unified platform for every social analytical need and enables users to extract powerful insights and actionable tips that improve their social media performance. As a result, users can improve their social media strategy by analyzing posts and understanding the strategies that are delivering the best engagement metrics. Hence, users can analyze their campaigns on the basis of multiple variables such as applause, conversation, and amplification. They can even select their competitors on the platform and perform competitive analysis within minutes.

Vaizle Key Features

Social Media Integration Analytics Analytical Reports Data Management Social Media Monitoring Brand Tracking Multi-Account Management Multi-User Collaboration Competitor Analysis Dashboard Reports Follower Analysis Campaign Analytics Engagement Tracking Post Scheduling Show More keyboard_arrow_down

Get Appsumo Vaizle in Deal For $69.00

Vaizle Lifetime Deal. Highlights:

The Vaizle lifetime deal is stackable (maximum 10 codes)

Features vary between lifetime plans: Number of Profiles (30 to 300), Number of Profiles Swaps/month

Stack 3 codes or more to unlock the Facebook Ads Analytics feature.

Vaizle – Appsumo Deal 2020 For $69.00

Vaizle is a social media analytics tool for startups and enterprises who need actionable insights in the simplest possible way when their company is benchmarked against their past performance and their competitors Vaizle is a competitive social media analytics tool for startups and enterprises who need actionable social media insights. It allows marketers to improve their social media performance by identifying gaps and opportunities