DATE:  19.03.2020, 16:55:51
TITLE: WYCKOFF TRADING COURSE (WTC) Part 1 (Summer 2020)
URL:   https://www.investors.com/promoted-content/wyckoff-analytics/wyckoff-trading-course-part-1-summer-2020/

Sign up here to attend the FREE introductory webinar on April 20th, 3:00 - 5:30 PM PDT. During this complimentary session, veteran course instructor Roman Bogomazov will present an overview of the Wyckoff Trading Course (WTC) - Part I and illustrate several key Wyckoff Method principles that you can apply to your own trading, even if you decide not to enroll in the course.

The Price/Volume/Time analytical approach of the Wyckoff Method provides chart-reading tools to help traders recognize and take advantage of specific institutional market activities throughout the Price Cycle, which in turn can enhance their ability to identify high-probability trading opportunities, such as the Nasdaq 100 (NQ) market update posted by @WyckoffAnalysis on Twitter on February 22, 2020, shown above. IBD readers who attend this session will recognize that the "M" in CANSLIM incorporates several core Wyckoff technical insights.

Please click here to register for this free introductory session!

Wyckoff Analytics offers a carefully sequenced Wyckoff Method educational curriculum designed to lead you to trading mastery. The Wyckoff Trading Course (WTC) – Part 1 will give you a foundational understanding of and ability to start using the Wyckoff Method, which allows traders and investors to anticipate market direction through analysis of price, volume and time, without the need for additional indicators. Used by many successful professional and institutional traders, the Wyckoff Method can be applied to all time frames in all freely traded markets!

Richard Wyckoff, considered to be one of the "titans of technical analysis," along with Dow and Elliott, developed a method based on what he called "the real rules of the game," which he learned from observing the market activities of such legendary stock operators as JP Morgan and Jesse Livermore. An avid tape-reader and student of the market, Wyckoff also edited the influential Magazine of Wall Street and headed his own brokerage firm, and was therefore in a unique position to observe how the large operators carefully planned and executed their campaigns. He integrated their best practices with his own original insights, articulating a chart-based method based on several laws, principles and techniques to track and trade in harmony with the big money (embodied today by the largest investment banks, hedge funds, and pension plans, among others).

The Wyckoff Trading Course (WTC) – Part 1 will give you a practical and actionable understanding of Wyckoff's methodology, allowing you to learn to "read the market" so that you can develop the ability to trade alongside the large institutions that generate (and stop) big trends. The summer course comprises 12 weekly 2 1/2-hour webinars, covering: (1) Price Structural Analysis, (2) Supply and Demand, and (3) Relative and Comparative Strength.

"Before working with Roman, my trading was both unstructured and haphazard. The WTC course helped me transform my trading by giving me the tools to enable me to understand and 'read' the activity of the market in a structured and systematic way. Roman is a great teacher and has a passion for educating…Not only is he an expert in Wyckoff analysis, he also understands the behavioral side of trading; what makes individuals tick and the systematic errors that individuals make." HL – former student

Visit Wyckoff Analytics to learn more!

WYCKOFF MARKET DISCUSSION

*FREE session on April 22nd, 3:00 - 4:30pm PDT. Click here to register.*

*FREE session on April 22nd, 3:00 - 4:30pm PDT. Click here to register.*

Please join us online for a complimentary session of our Wyckoff Market Discussion (WMD), during which we conduct detailed chart analyses of a variety of widely followed markets. Many WMD participants have been tuning in each week for years, and have told us that the Wyckoff structural approach helps them to better understand the evolution of price and to prepare their trading tactics accordingly.

Each session includes:

Our weekly review of the major US indices (Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Russell 2000), including the current positions of these markets and plausible scenarios to anticipate in the near future.

Leading and lagging sectors, industry groups and stocks, as well as several futures markets, including oil, gold, Bitcoin, and traditional currencies.

Historical case studies, highlighting their relevance to current market conditions.

Anatomy of a Trade, in which we analyze and follow a class trade as it unfolds in real time.

Detailed analyses of charts submitted by WMD attendees!

Please click here to register for this free webinar session!

About the Instructors:

The Wyckoff Market Discussion sessions are conducted by Roman Bogomazov and Bruce Fraser, who have a combined 57 years' experience in trading and teaching the Wyckoff method. Roman is President of Wyckoff Associates, LLC, an enterprise providing online Wyckoff Method education to traders throughout the world. Bruce co-taught the Wyckoff Method at Golden Gate University with the late Dr. Henry ("Hank") Pruden for many years, and currently publishes a popular educational blog at StockCharts.com and vlog at StockChartsTV.com, entitled "Wyckoff Power Charting."

Bruce Fraser:

Bruce Fraser, an industry-leading "Wyckoffian," began teaching graduate-level courses at Golden Gate University (GGU) in 1987. Working closely with the late Dr. Henry ("Hank") Pruden, he developed curriculum for and taught many courses in GGU's Technical Market Analysis Graduate Certificate Program, including Technical Analysis of Securities, Strategy and Implementation, Business Cycle Analysis and the Wyckoff Method. For nearly three decades, he co-taught Wyckoff Method courses with Dr. Pruden, and has also used this approach to the markets as the foundation of his own trading for over 35 years. Bruce also publishes a popular blog at StockCharts.com and vlog at StockChartsTV.com entitled "Wyckoff Power Charting".

Roman Bogomazov:

Roman Bogomazov is a trader and educator specializing in the Wyckoff Method of trading and investing, which he has taught for the last five years as an Adjunct Professor at Golden Gate University. He is also the founder and President of Wyckoff Associates, LLC, an enterprise providing online Wyckoff Method education to traders throughout the world. Using WyckoffAnalytics.com as a thriving trading community platform, Roman has developed a comprehensive educational curriculum covering basic to advanced Wyckoff concepts and techniques, as well as visual pattern recognition and real-time drills to enhance traders' skills and confidence. A dedicated and passionate Wyckoffian, he has used the Wyckoff Method exclusively for his own trading for the last 20 years. Roman has also served as a Board Member of the International Federation of Technical Analysts and as past president of the Technical Securities Analysts Association of San Francisco.

Visit Wyckoff Analytics to learn more!