DATE:  10.11.2019, 15:30:31
TITLE: Bitcoin Cash House Launches Crypto Hub in Venezuela
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-cash-house-launches-crypto-hub-in-venezuela/

Bitcoin Cash House Launches Crypto Hub in Venezuela

A new crypto resource has emerged in Barquisimeto, Venezuela, for Venezuelans interested in learning about Bitcoin Cash and cryptocurrencies. The project, called Bitcoin Cash House, is the brainchild of Roberto Garcia and is sponsored by Bitcoin.com and Sideshift.ai. It exists as a physical location and online initiative, seeking to educate newcomers to the space on the acquisition, storage, and general use of crypto, as well as development and job opportunities.

Also Read: Over 200 Venezuelan Taxis Discover the Benefits of Bitcoin Cash

Welcome to the Cash House

Launched just days ago, on November 7, Bitcoin Cash House teaches people in Venezuela about the benefits of crypto. With the nation in a state of economic upheaval and political unrest, many Venezuelans are understandably concerned about finding ways to transact, send and earn money that are not dependent on the hyper-inflated bolivar or the whims of a volatile government.

A Reddit post detailing the launch by Bitcoin.com’s Matt Aaron describes Bitcoin Cash House as “A crypto education hub in the city of Barquisimeto, Venezuela. A mall kiosk where local cryptocurrency advocates teach Venezuelans about the power of cryptocurrency.”

Some of the topics the Cash House will educate folks on include “How to send money to friends and family anywhere in the world instantly,” advantages of crypto over traditional money, how to store and spend crypto, “How to protect assets against volatility with SLP tokens including the USDH stablecoin,” and jobs in crypto as well as developer opportunities.

Though the launch was a challenging process, the crypto advocates involved saw it through. Aaron, host of the Humans of Bitcoin podcast, explains that “We at Bitcoin.com and Sideshift.ai did the easy part and got the sponsorship money. Roberto Garcia did all the hard stuff. It’s his project. He scoured the city to find a place … 2 months later and it’s live. Roberto went to just about every mall; shopping center. Rejections, delays, stipulations.” Founder Garcia notes in the comments:

In Venezuela there is a lot of fear, but thanks to my experience and knowledge with the help of Matt we managed to overcome the problems.

Moving Forward in Venezuela

Garcia, who also organizes a BCH meetup in Barquisimeto, understands the importance of a physical location and human conversation for conveying the power of crypto. Citing the Los Angeles area hub for “education and services needed to encourage the adoption of digital currencies,” Cryptospace, Matt Aaron writes in the Reddit post:

Having a physical location is POWERFUL. We the cryptocommunity, talk ‘trustless’. But the rest of the world has to earn that trust. In person conversations are powerful.

The Bitcoin Cash House project is currently an experiment, operating on a three-month lease and seeing where things go from there. Aaron notes that surrounding businesses will be encouraged to adopt BCH as well, stating “In the same location are a pizzeria, bank, and liquor store. We will teach them to start accepting Bitcoin Cash as well.” Donations to Bitcoin Cash House can be made via venezuela.Bitcoin.com, and a Spanish language announcement of the launch can be found here.

What do you think about the Bitcoin Cash House project? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image credits: Bitcoin Cash House.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The Local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.