DATE:  28.05.2019, 20:02:30
TITLE: Blowjobs, Beer & Bitcoin
URL:   https://blockpublisher.com/blowjobs-beer-bitcoin/

The three B’s that can make every guys night. You can never go wrong with this. You can do it anytime you like but it’s better to pull this off on a Saturday night so when you wake up hung over the next day, you don’t have to worry about work or school. You wake up with a stress-free hangover!

Bitcoin, Beer, and Blowjobs make a great triangle and this three component equation is a guaranteed hit, especially for guys.

Chug It Out

There are a few industries that are accepting bitcoins now but the beer industry hasn’t gone too big on it, yet. However, we deliver what we promise so we dished out a UK based online beer company called Honest Brew who accept Bitcoin a while ago.

All transactions are processed through BitPay to make it secure and easier to pay. What’s the point if I have to go through so much hassle if I want to get a can of beer, amirite? So in order to make things faster, they got BitPay on board.

Another one in the hood is London Distillery and although we admit, it sounds like serious business, it will get you what you want. Not only this but this company really goes big because they help you PLAN, depending upon your scale and drinking mood. This enhances your experience and helps you from wasting those extra digital monies. Looks like they really care. Aw!

Blow It Out

It is better to get drunk before you get things steamy because it just enhances your experience. So once you have chugged all the beer you wanted, it is time to blow off… some steam. *wink wink*

SexService.io is an escort platform that lets you have safe sex and other kinds too. It’s a safe platform that protects their customers and sex employees ensuring that both the parties involved get what they want. The security is secured through anonymity so no one knows the real you.

If you don’t want to go through the hassle of getting someone then we have another great option for you which is a one time purchase but guarantees unlimited pleasure, unless they run out of batteries.

Yeap, introducing Robotic Blowjobs, a place where you can get your own blowjob machine! This creation is by Brain Sloan, a sex toy designer, who invented Autoblow 2.

So if you are a girlfriend looking to make things a little special for your man, then you should start hitting tabs right away. And if you are some lonely guy looking to have a fun night, then this is your G-spot!