DATE:  28.05.2019, 12:10:35
TITLE: How to Easily Convert Funds From BTC to BCH
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/how-to-easily-convert-funds-from-btc-to-bch/

How to Easily Convert Funds From BTC to BCH

Converting funds from one cryptocurrency to another using an exchange can be costly and time consuming, especially if you don’t already have a verified account at one. Luckily there are much faster and convenient ways, such as switching from BTC to BCH right inside the Bitcoin.com Wallet app.

Also Read: How to Create a Bitcoin Cash Treasure Hunt

Using the Bitcoin.com Wallet to Exchange BTC to BCH

The Bitcoin.com Wallet includes a built-in feature for converting funds from bitcoin core (BTC) to bitcoin cash (BCH) or vice versa. In order to access the service, just click on the tab labeled “Exchange between BTC and BCH” on the app’s homepage and a new interface will open up inside the wallet. Then just press “Start Sideshift AI” and pick the specific wallet you want to send funds from and the amount you want to exchange. After you approve the trade and fees, the new coins should appear in a few minutes in the appropriate wallet.

This service is powered by Sideshift.ai, an application for swapping cryptocurrencies that came to prominence after Shapeshift introduced a mandatory membership program. The Sideshift platform is not accessible to residents of North Korea, the United States, Iran, Venezuela, Belarus, Burundi, Central African Republic, Cuba, Congo, Iraq, Libya, Nicaragua, Somalia, Syria, Yemen, Zimbabwe, Lebanon, South Sudan and Sudan. The platform detects users’ country of residence by their IP address so if you were blocked by mistake you might need to adjust your VPN settings.

What services do you use to switch between different cryptocurrencies? Share your experience in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.