DATE:  23.02.2020, 11:04:19
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Zodiac Wheel Slot Game by EGT
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-zodiac-wheel-slot-game-by-egt/041911

For the lovers of horoscope and those who would like to see what the future has in store for them, there’s a game to cater for their needs. Zodiac wheel slot has been added by Bitcoin Casino and it can now be played by all slot lovers.

If your favorite saying is written in the stars now’s the time to prove your mettle with this slot.

The design of the slots is simplistic and minimalist with a collection of dark backgrounds. It’s not all gloomy though as there are several brilliant colors that fill your reels and symbols. The music that accompanies the Zodiac wheel slot pleasant, enriching and fun.

The intensity and design of the characters that govern that reels clearly show that EGT put in a lot of effort and amazing user experience into Zodiac Wheel. This was quite thoughtful of them and it’s something we believe a number of fans will greatly appreciate.

Zodiac Wheel slot is considered a jackpot slot, this means that if you’re playing the game on a day your stars align, there’s every chance you can land one of the four progressive jackpots the game offers.

If you play the maximum stake on offer, there’s every chance that you can trigger the jackpot. For a wise investor, this means that you can earn a likable bonus for doing what you love and earning money at the same time. However, the RTP of the slot is pegged at 96.45 percent.

Bonus symbols and Features

The slot is a five reel, five payline slot machine and it was created by EGT – a Bulgarian provider. The game’s theme is an astrology theme while the symbols can range from the list of zodiac symbols.

Some of the symbols are, an astrological telescope, a crystal ball, mysterious enchanting letters and some golden starts are some of the symbols that will welcome you. These golden starts have the prospect of getting you about 60,000 coins, which is the grand prize the game offers.

Regarding the bonus symbols, that’s the job of the zodiac wheel as it turns into the wild in the course of playing – It only shows on reels 2, 3 and 4. The wild completely replaces all other symbols except the scatter symbols and it has the possibility of landing some of the top prizes on offer in the game.

One thing we noticed is that the slot is not a free spins slot. On the other hand, the two scatters on offer in the game will land you some great earnings. A book icon represents the first scatter symbol the moment you get 3, 4 or 5 on an active pay line. This will earn you 3, 25 or 100 times the sum staked in that order.

The cartography symbol is the other scatter symbol and can only be gotten on the 1, 3 and 5 reals to get a prize of 100 coins.