DATE:  23.02.2020, 17:50:00
TITLE: Fresenius generates more than $3.5 billion sales in 2019
URL:   https://born2invest.com/articles/fresenius-generates-more-than-3-5-billion-sales-in-2019/

The German health group Fresenius closed the 2019 financial year with an impressive 9% increase in sales. The company generated sales in excess of $3.5 billion (€3.2 million).

Fresenius Helios Spain specifically achieved sales of $3.56 (€3.29 million) last year, compared to $3.27 (€3.02 million) in 2018, according to data provided by the company and to which PlantaDoce has had access.

Get the latest business news and information on genetic engineering and biotechnology including analysis, features, companies, podcasts, and more with the Born2Invest mobile app.

The largest private hospital group

Quirónsalud is the largest private hospital group in Spain and integrates a network of 47 hospitals, 71 outpatient centers, more than 6,000 beds, and nearly 300 occupational risk prevention centers. In addition, the multinational attends to nearly 13.3 million patients a year in Spain.

In addition, in the fiscal year 2019, Fresenius Helios’ earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) in Spain were $469 million (€434 million), up 5% from $446 million (€413 million) in 2018.

The owner of Quirónsalud achieved sales of over $38 billion in 2019

In the fourth quarter of last year alone, Fresenius Helios Spain achieved sales of $937 million (€867 million), which represents an increase of 9% over the same period last year. Likewise, the company’s EBIT grew by 6% from October to December, to $144 million (€134 million).

Fresenius’ total sales improved by 8% last year to $38 billion (€35.5 billion), while net profit before extraordinary items was $2.1 billion (€1.9 billion), up 2% from twelve months ago.

Quirónsalud has announced this week the acquisition of the Clínica de la Mujer in Bogotá

On Wednesday, February 19th, Quirónsalud announced the acquisition of the Clínica de la Mujer in Bogotá (Colombia). This is the first center in the Colombian capital that the group manages from Spain, after the acquisition of Clínica Medellín, Clínica Las Vegas, Cedimed, and Clínica del Prado, all in the city of Medellín, and the Imbanaco Medical Centre in the city of Cali.

Clínica de la Mujer is a center specialized in gynecology, pediatrics, and obstetrics (performing about 3,000 births annually). The facility has approximately 80 beds and five operating rooms and generated sales of around $22 million (€20 million) in 2019. The transaction, which is now pending approval by the Colombian authorities, is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020.

Within the Spanish borders, last December it was revealed that Quirónsalud will invest $32 million (€30 million) in the construction of a new hospital located in the Avenida de Elvas in Badajoz. The company acquired the land for the project in the summer but is still awaiting the authorization that will allow it to build the complex.

The new hospital will have one hundred beds and 48 outpatient consultations in an area of 16,000 square meters. The center will also have an administrative block and a parking area of another 2,000 square meters. This space will complement the group’s current offering in Badajoz, a city where the Quirónsalud Clideba Hospital is located.

The Spanish company plans to start up a new hospital in Badalona for $38 million

The hospital giant also plans to continue growing in Catalonia. In October, the company reported the launch of a new center in Badalona on a 14,000 square meter site. The investment for this project amounts to $38 million (€35 million).

The center will be built on Avenida Navarra in the town of Barcelona, between the streets of Ramón Rubial and La Seu d’Urgell, very close to Avenida del President Companys, one of the busiest streets in the town. The building will be located in an expanding area near the N-II, very well connected by road with Barcelona and the Maresme, and right next to a residence for the elderly that the Ballesol group has in Badalona.

The future center, which is expected to start operating in 2021, will have one hundred hospitalization beds and will offer a wide portfolio of services with care in all specialties and multidisciplinary units to provide comprehensive and highly responsive care to patients.

__

(Featured image by Martha Dominguez de Gouveia via Unsplash)

DISCLAIMER: This article was written by a third party contributor and does not reflect the opinion of Born2Invest, its management, staff or its associates. Please review our disclaimer for more information.

This article may include forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “estimate,” “become,” “plan,” “will,” and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks as well as uncertainties, including those discussed in the following cautionary statements and elsewhere in this article and on this site. Although the Company may believe that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, the actual results that the Company may achieve may differ materially from any forward-looking statements, which reflect the opinions of the management of the Company only as of the date hereof. Additionally, please make sure to read these important disclosures.

First published in PlantaDoce., a third-party contributor translated and adapted the article from the original. In case of discrepancy, the original will prevail.

Although we made reasonable efforts to provide accurate translations, some parts may be incorrect. Born2Invest assumes no responsibility for errors, omissions or ambiguities in the translations provided on this website. Any person or entity relying on translated content does so at their own risk. Born2Invest is not responsible for losses caused by such reliance on the accuracy or reliability of translated information. If you wish to report an error or inaccuracy in the translation, we encourage you to contact us.