DATE:  18.11.2019, 18:30:57
TITLE: Nexinter - Profit Sharing Crypto Exchange
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/nexinter-profit-sharing-crypto-exchange/

Nexinter - Profit Sharing Crypto Exchange

Today, Nexinter, the digital fiat-crypto and custodian exchange, has announced that it will be the first profit sharing digital exchange in the world. 75% of the Nexinter’s profits from any operation or revenue stream on the platform will be returned to the community in a reward system.

There will be two components that determine the reward to the community: time and volume. The time reward component will be active in 2020, and the more days an individual is active on the Nexinter Exchange, the higher the reward, thus benefiting early adopters. From 2020, the reward volume will come into effect. 60% of the profits generated will be rewarded to users based on their volume pro-rata. This will not depend on when they signed up but the volume the individual has generated on the platform throughout the year. After 2020, the whole 75% of the profits will be committed to the Volume Reward Fund as the Time Reward Component ends.

Daniele Mensi, CEO of Nexthash Group, commented: ‘This announcement is a huge step forward for us, the market, and the global financial arena. With more institutional and retail investors becoming disenfranchised by the current reward systems, we are introducing a new way of conducting sustainable business whilst rewarding the community, that is the main contributor of growth. We hope other actors, particularly in the traditional and fintech space, learn from our lead and work together with us to provide an inclusive environment for all. The paradigm shift we are introducing is to reward the community regardless of their performance towards markets, that is a key driver of a brand-new sustainable open growth.”

Nexinter has lately launched their fully compliant NIXT growth token on top of bitcoin cash network to drive truly engagement interactions with its community and has lately announced the structuring of digital securities offering for their clients.

Contact Email Address

d.mensi@nexthash.com

Supporting Link

https://nexthash.com/