DATE:  18.11.2019, 14:30:16
TITLE: With Christmas Approaching, Here Are Some Travel Sites Accepting Crypto
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/with-christmas-approaching-here-are-some-travel-sites-accepting-crypto/

With Christmas Approaching, Here Are Some Travel Sites Accepting Crypto

Traveling for the Christmas holidays is something anyone would enjoy. Dealing with travel arrangements, however, can be a headache. For crypto enthusiasts, being able to pay for airplane tickets, hotel bookings and car rentals with cryptocurrency is a relief, because it’s convenient and it’s safe. Numerous travel sites accept digital coins these days.

Also read: Bitcoin ATM in Miami Airport Raises Questions About Traveling With Crypto

How to Pay for Your Trip With Cryptocurrency

The travel industry, unlike other, more conservative sectors, has been relatively quick to realize the potential of crypto payments. Over the past few years, travel agencies accepting cryptocurrencies have been growing in number. There’s now about a dozen well-established travel websites that will gladly take your coins to arrange your trip. These accept most of the leading cryptos including bitcoin cash (BCH) and bitcoin core (BTC).

Cheapair is a pioneer in this business as it has been accepting cryptocurrency since 2013. You can now pay for flights and hotel stays using bitcoin core (BTC), bitcoin cash (BCH), litecoin (LTC), ethereum (ETH), and dash. You can book a flight for just about any destination and reserve a room at 200,000 hotels. Although few of them accept direct crypto payments, Cheapair.com makes it possible for you to use your digital coins to cover the bills.

Travala is also a popular option as it offers you the opportunity to book over 2,000,000 hotels and properties in more than 80,000 destinations globally, according to its website. It supports multiple payment methods including major credit cards, Paypal, and a choice of cryptocurrencies. The blockchain-powered booking platform accepts BCH, BTC, ETH, LTC and a number of other coins and tokens. Travala assures customers it will match or beat any competitor’s price through its Best Price Guarantee program.

If you need another website that processes payments in multiple digital currencies, you can check Bitcoin.Travel. Use it to search for flights, hotels, rentals and tours in top destinations around the world such as New York, London, Tokyo, and Sydney. The company behind the service is based in Poland and has been in operation since 2011. It currently takes seven cryptos: BCH, BTC, ETH, ETC, LTC, DASH and DOGE, and claims that it transfers your money to the host 24 hours after you check in.

Travelbybit is an online platform you can use to book hotels and flights using crypto. You can have the prices displayed in various fiat currencies including the U.S. dollar, euro, Chinese yuan and Indian rupee, while the available payment options also include BTC, LTC and BNB, Binance’s native token. The booking website is powered by the leading digital asset exchange.

Greitai is a booking platform specializing in low-cost flights, accommodation, and car rentals. It’s operated by the Vilnius-headquartered Interneto Partneris. The Lithuanian company maintains a network of websites offering services in 21 other countries in Europe. It supports a variety of payment methods depending on the market. In Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Slovakia and Georgia, Greitai takes half a dozen cryptocurrencies including BTC, ETH, and XRP.

More Than Just Tickets and Rooms

A travel site that’s available in multiple languages — over 30 — is Destinia. It offers a rich choice of services that go beyond airline tickets, hotel accommodation and car hire. Travelers can buy train tickets, rent apartments, and purchase ski packages as well. The Spain-based agency supports 72 currency options including several cryptocurrencies like bitcoin core, bitcoin cash, ethereum, eos, dash, and litecoin. You can pay with any of these coins but note that the prices are displayed in millibitcoins, mBTC, mBCH and so on.

Several travel companies accept crypto through integration with the U.S. payment processor Bitpay. That means you can book flights and pay for hotel stays with bitcoin cash (BCH) and bitcoin core (BTC). Britain-based Corporate Traveller specializes in business travel management services for companies that need travel arrangements for their employees, as many businesses around the world cannot afford to close for the holidays. Another U.K.-headquartered travel agency, Alternative Airlines, is working to introduce crypto payments for its customers in cooperation with the Swiss payments processor Utrust. The partnership was announced last week.

Airtreks is a booking platform that also uses the services of Bitpay. It helps clients who need travel itineraries that involve multi-stop and even round the world trips. Airbaltic, the flag carrier of Latvia, provides a great variety of fiat payment options including bank transfers, credit cards, payment processors like Paypal and Ideal, but it also takes BCH and BTC via Bitpay. Keep in mind that, according to its website, the cryptocurrency option is “only available for Basic tickets for flights booked at least five days ahead of the scheduled departure.” Bitpay is also among the listed payment methods on the German travel site Fluege.

Are you planning to pay for your holiday trip with cryptocurrency? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or as a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Are you looking for a secure way to buy bitcoin online? Start by downloading your free bitcoin wallet from us and then head over to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can easily buy BTC and BCH.