DATE:  21.09.2019, 09:30:54
TITLE: Bankera Launches a Global Crypto Backed Lending Solution
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bankera-launches-a-global-crypto-backed-lending-solution/

Bankera Launches a Global Crypto Backed Lending Solution

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

The team behind Bankera, which is building the bank for the blockchain era, has announced the release of its very own lending solution – ​ Bankera Loans​. The solution aims to provide flexible and secure crypto-backed loans to cryptocurrency holders globally starting from as low as 100 EUR up to as high as 1M EUR.

Bankera Loans acts as an alternative medium for crypto owners who need quick access to financing, but do not want to liquidate their positions. The solution offers clients a possibility to take out loans by pledging cryptocurrencies as collateral and retaining the ownership of their assets.

Crypto-backed loans for individuals and businesses

While the concept of crypto-backed loans is not entirely new as the surge of cryptocurrencies in 2017 precipitated a rise in crypto-based lending platforms, current solutions tend to overlook clients looking for smaller loans.

Bankera Loans aims to democratize access to core banking services for all cryptocurrency market participants by providing flexible loan solutions suited to both individuals and businesses.

“We see a big interest from the community in smaller crypto-backed loans. This market has been heavily underserved, and typical loan minimums in the current market are often too high. Bankera Loans solution offers our clients the possibility to take a loan as low as 100 EUR so that all clients can obtain the financing they need”, Bankera’s co-founder Vytautas Karalevičius explained.

The solution also welcomes business clients looking to utilize their crypto assets to get quick financing for leveraging positions, expanding the business, and more.

How does the lending process at Bankera Loans work?

Taking out a loan at Bankera is a simple process. After completing a quick ​ sign-up​ , the customer should deposit assets to Bankera Loans wallet that can be later used as collateral; then the customer can personalize the loan terms by choosing a preferred loan amount, loan duration, as well as withdrawal and collateral currencies. As soon as the application is approved, the client will receive a loan to the Bankera Loans account.

Bankera Loans customers can choose among a number of major fiat or cryptocurrencies for withdrawing their crypto-backed loans. Currently, the platform supports Euro (EUR), Banker (BNK), Tether (USDT), Bitcoin (BTC), Ether (ETH), NEM (XEM), and Dash (DASH) currencies with more to be added in the future. Bankera’s own Banker (BNK) token holders can take advantage of lower interest rates by choosing BNK as the currency for interest payments.

Having analyzed the market carefully, the company offers competitive rates and no hidden fees. Repayments are possible at any time while interest payments are debited automatically every month from the client’s loans wallet.

Bankera Loans is already the third product within Bankera’s ecosystem, following the company’s first solution – the cryptocurrency brokerage SpectroCoin, which was released back in 2013, has now reached one million customers. In addition, the peer-to-peer cryptocurrency trading platform Bankera Exchange had launched at the beginning of this year.

About Bankera

Bankera aims to become the bank for the blockchain era and is actively working to build an ecosystem of products and services that would encompass the best of both traditional finance and crypto economy.

Bankera’s digital bank will offer financial services such as savings and loans accounts, low-cost investment products, and crypto funds. This essentially merges the banking and blockchain worlds together.

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.