DATE:  10.04.2019, 18:16:30
TITLE: French Footballer Kylian Mbappe’s Twitter Hacked, Asks for Bitcoin (BTC)
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/french-footballer-kylian-mbappes-twitter-hacked-asks-for-bitcoin-btc/

French international footballer Kylian Mbappe’s Twitter account was unexpectedly hacked today. The hacker asked for a shoutout in exchange for Bitcoin BUY NOW (BTC).

Everyone was caught off guard today when Mbappe’s official Twitter began asking for Bitcoin for a shoutout. His Twitter account was clearly breached and the hacker managed to take control of the professional footballer’s handle.

The wrongdoer requested €200 in BTC for a shoutout, which was to be requested via direct message. The tweet garnered significant traction before it was taken down, with over 800 retweets and close to 2,000 likes.

It is not that uncommon for celebrity Twitter accounts to be breached by cryptocurrency hackers. one is reminded of when Elon Musk himself was hacked last year. His account began tweeting about giving out “free Ethereum BUY NOW,” a classic scam where users would be asked to input their private keys in exchange for free cryptocurrency coins.

Although Mbappe’s compromised account was far less serious, with the hacker only asking for a shoutout, who knows if anyone actually fell for it. The tweet was taken down after just a few hours from being posted, so it’s unlikely the hacker actually had time to profit significantly from the stunt.

Mbappe is most widely known as the fresh young talent who helped France secure its World Cup victory in 2018. It was then that he went down as being the youngest French goal scorer in World Cup history. He was also the second-youngest player to score in a World Cup final after the great Pelé.

Hopefully, Mpabbe’s social media team learns to keep the account securely under lock in the future.

Do you think anyone was actually foolish enough to send BTC to Kylian Mbappe’s hacker? Let us know your thoughts on this absurd story below.

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.