DATE:  10.04.2019, 12:37:17
TITLE: Youtube Star Pewdiepie Joins Live Streaming Platform That Accepts Cryptocurrency
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/youtube-star-pewdiepie-joins-live-streaming-platform-that-accepts-cryptocurrency/

Youtube Star Pewdiepie Joins Live Streaming Platform That Accepts Cryptocurrency

Pewdiepie has announced that he is joining live streaming platform Dlive. The service supports cryptocurrency payments for purchases of its native tokens, with accepted options including bitcoin cash (BCH) as well as BTC, ETH and LTC.

Also Read: How 30 Full-Time Staff Created the New Crypto TV Network Blocktv

Pewdiepie Partners With Live Streaming Platform Dlive

Pewdiepie, the leading Youtube star with over 93 million subscribers, has announced that he is partnering with Dlive. An alternative to video live streaming platform Twitch, Dlive is defined as a “decentralized livestreaming community built using the Lino blockchain.”

Dlive claims to have over 3 million monthly active users and 35,000 active streamers. The platform is available online at Dlive.tv as well as via its Android and iOS apps. Content creators and viewers can earn rewards for their participation in the form of Lino points, the native tokens of the network. For users outside the U.S. it is also possible to buy Lino points with cryptocurrency including bitcoin cash (BCH) as well as BTC, ETH and LTC.

Why Is Pewdiepie Going With Dlive?

Pewdiepie, whose real name is Felix Kjellberg, has often complained about the demonetization of his videos by Youtube for a long while now, whether due to controversy, copyright claims or other issues. In contrast to Youtube and Twitch, he calls Dlive a platform that is focused on its content creators first. And according to its website, Dlive “takes absolutely zero platform cuts from users’ donations and subscriptions.”

Streaman exclusively on @OfficialDLive , e🅱️ic livestream platform that focuses on it’s creators first. On April 14th. 👈🤠 I will do my part & #SupportCreators by donating up to $50,000 Follow any creator on dlive to increase the donation amount! https://t.co/rzq5VEslX2 — ƿ૯ωძɿ૯ƿɿ૯ (@pewdiepie) April 9, 2019



“DLive is a place where instead of competing against each other, it benefits creators to support one another. With no platform cuts, we incentivize everyone to create the highest quality content for viewers,” said Wilson Wei, Co-Founder of Lino Network, “PewDiePie has always been a fierce advocate for the value that creators bring with their hard work, time, and effort, and he believes in DLive’s vision.”

Paul Joseph Watson, who has over 940,000 Twitter followers, has since announced that he will be following Pewdiepie’s lead in moving to Dlive.

Given that YouTube demonetizes all my videos immediately upon upload, I too will be switching to DLive for live streams. Good on Pewds for taking this step. https://t.co/cQ1g2xlIzA — Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) April 10, 2019

What do you think about this move by Pewdiepie and its possible implications for cryptocurrency? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Satoshi’s Pulse, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.