DATE:  01.12.2019, 01:15:28
TITLE: Film Reveals Never-Before-Seen Information About the Silk Road Case
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/film-reveals-never-before-seen-information-about-the-silk-road-case/

Film Reveals Never-Before-Seen Information About the Silk Road Case

On November 26, a new Silk Road video was published that reveals underreported and never-before-seen information. The film called the “Silk Road Case: The Real, Untold Story” contains over 400 references to direct evidence from a wide range of sources. The organization Freeross.org published the video on Youtube and called it “the most comprehensive, researched narrative about Silk Road and Ross Ulbricht’s case.”

Also read: The Silk Road Investigation: A ‘Pattern of Bad Behavior and Double Agents’

New Silk Road Documentary Discusses How Ross Ulbricht Handed the Reins Over to Another Individual

Since the Silk Road marketplace was seized and Ross Ulbricht incarcerated, many facets of the case have remained a mystery to this day. The video published on Youtube on November 26 by the nonprofit organization Freeross.org tries to unravel some of the riddles behind the Silk Road investigation. “Silk Road Case: The Real, Untold Story” contains information that has never been publicly released before as well as underreported information from sources derived from various subjects, court filings, transcripts, trial exhibits, and affidavits.

When Ross started the Silk Road, he called it a “free-market economic experiment” and he wholeheartedly believed “people should have the right to buy and sell whatever they wanted, so long as they weren’t hurting anyone else.” Just a few months after the market launch, the news outlet gawker.com published an article about the Silk Road, which went viral and eventually reached the ears of politicians and law enforcement. New York Senator Chuck Schumer called for immediate action against the Silk Road marketplace and at the time, it was called the ‘Schumer’s case.’

Because Ross lacked the technical knowledge and programming abilities to run a marketplace as large as the Silk Road, he started asking friends for help. A close friend didn’t want anything to do with the market, so Ross turned to an anonymous individual. “A stranger provided the needed help and eventually took control of the site entirely,” the video’s narrator highlights. Moreover, the unknown Silk Road leader did an interview with the press shortly after Ross handed the market over. “I was in his corner from early on and eventually it made sense for me to take the reins,” the new DPR explained during his interview. In November 2011 following the transition, Ross told his close friend in an online chat room:

Glad that’s not my problem anymore.

Most people are unaware that after Ross gave up the reins, the new unknown leader of the Silk Road announced his infamous screen name on February 6, 2012. The newly appointed administrator told the public his name was the “Dread Pirate Roberts” (DPR) from the film “The Princess Bride.” Similarly to the movie script, DPR passed his name down to each successor and with the Silk Road, it’s still unknown how many DPRs existed.

Magical Tux, Rogue Agents, and How the Justice System Failed Miserably

After detailing that there were other players who filled the DPR role, the recently published video also discussed how the former Mt Gox CEO Mark Karpeles was a top suspect in the Silk Road case. Lots of the film’s narration stems from public information sources and explains how Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) agent Jared Der-Yeghiayan thought that Mark Karpeles was involved with the market operations.

Der-Yeghiayan discovered a website on the clearnet called silkroadmarket.org that taught people how to use the market. According to Der-Yeghiayan’s investigation, its URL was registered with XTA.net. Then subpoenas revealed that XTA.net was owned by Mark Karpeles’ firm Mutum Sigillum. Der-Yeghiayan stated that Karpeles operated “hundreds of websites,” which “[made him] well-suited to operating a site such as the Silk Road.” The HSI agent’s reports also found that Karpeles used similar software to program his websites. In April 2012, Der-Yeghiayan believed that Karpeles and one of his associates, Ashley Barr, operated the Silk Road and controlled the DPR handle.

The comprehensive film also explains how another federal agent took control of the Silk Road case and took all of Der-Yeghiayan’s evidence. The video details how the same federal agent “leaked investigation details to two Baltimore agents” who eventually went rogue. DEA agent Carl Mark Force and Secret Service agent Shaun Bridges were later found guilty for manipulating the case and stealing millions of dollars worth of bitcoins. The two-hour film contains a lot of information from the server takedown, the setup and arrest of Ross Ulbricht, the deletion of evidence during the investigation and how the entire case was an abomination of justice. If you are interested in watching the “Silk Road Case: The Real, Untold Story” in its entirety, check out the video below.

Have you seen the film “Silk Road Case: The Real, Untold Story”? What do you think about the fact there were multiple DPRs and the connection made with Karpeles? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Silk Road Case: The Real, Untold Story, Freeross.org, Josephine Walsh, Wiki Commons, and Fair Use.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.