DATE:  01.12.2019, 17:31:57
TITLE: Swiss Licensed Crypto Bank Expanding Into 9 Markets
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/swiss-licensed-crypto-bank-expanding-into-9-markets/

Swiss Licensed Crypto Bank Expanding Into 9 Markets

A fully operational crypto-focused bank based in Switzerland is expanding into nine other markets. With a banking and securities dealer license from the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, its services include crypto custody, trading, and asset management. The bank has launched its investment business including a cryptocurrency index.

Also read: Swiss Crypto Bank SEBA Launches With Range of Services

International Expansions

SEBA Bank AG, formerly SEBA Crypto AG, is a crypto-focused bank headquartered in Zug, Switzerland. The bank recently became fully operational and started onboarding Swiss clients after obtaining a banking and securities dealer license from the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA).

The bank has announced that it is extending service to “clients from selected foreign jurisdictions” in December. A spokesperson for the bank told news.Bitcoin.com that the selected jurisdictions are the U.K., Italy, Germany, France, Austria, Portugal, Netherlands, Singapore, and Hong Kong.

SEBA Bank aims to build a bridge between the traditional banking world and the crypto world. Its services include custody storage, trading and liquidity management, asset and wealth management, transaction banking, and tokenization. They are aimed at professional investors, family offices, banks, asset managers, and blockchain companies.

The spokesperson further clarified to news.Bitcoin.com that the bank accepts BTC, ETH, ETC, LTC, XLM and NEO for its custody service. As for trading, it accepts BTC, ETH, ETC, LTC, and XLM.

Investment Solutions and Crypto Index

The bank launched its investment business on Tuesday along with its index for crypto assets called the SEBA Crypto Asset Select Index (SEBAX). The bank has selected MV Index Solutions Gmbh (MVIS) to maintain the index and act as its administrator. Gentwo Digital was also brought on board to implement the specific restructuring requirements of the first investment solution, SEBA noted.

SEBAX “is a dynamic, risk-optimized index with a broad market exposure of the crypto asset market,” the bank described. Its objective “is to provide an investable index for the most secure, reliable and tradable crypto assets,” MVIS detailed. “The selection of the constituents is monitored on an ongoing basis. The index applies advanced techniques to reduce concentration into single constituents and to deliver enhanced diversification.”

According to its fact sheet, the index was established on July 2 and currently has five components that are rebalanced monthly. It is calculated daily with the constituent prices converted to USD. A maximum of eight crypto assets ranked by market capitalization are selected for inclusion in the index. MVIS has contracted with Cryptocompare Data Ltd. to maintain and calculate the index. In November, the index components are 48.46% BTC, 26.70% ETH, 18.28% LTC, 3.43% XLM, and 3.13% ETC.

Crypto assets have to meet specific criteria to be eligible for the index and must rank within the top 30 coins by market capitalization. “Stable coins and privacy coins are excluded,” MVIS explained. Also excluded are crypto assets with less 90 days of pricing history, those that are not listed on any of the eligible exchanges, and those that fail the index’s technical maturity and safety criteria.

What do you think of SEBA Bank expanding internationally? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or as a recommendation, endorsement, or sponsorship of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.



Images courtesy of Shutterstock, SEBA Bank, and MVIS.

Did you know you can buy and sell BCH privately using our noncustodial, peer-to-peer Local Bitcoin Cash trading platform? The local.Bitcoin.com marketplace has thousands of participants from all around the world trading BCH right now. And if you need a bitcoin wallet to securely store your coins, you can download one from us here.