DATE:  29.04.2019, 11:50:48
TITLE: How to Monetize Your Blog or Website With Bitcoin Games
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/how-to-monetize-your-blog-or-website-with-bitcoin-games/

How to Monetize Your Blog or Website With Bitcoin Games

If you have a popular website, blog or even a large mailing list of people interested in cryptocurrencies or online games, there are a few ways to monetize your traffic. One quick and easy revenue-generating solution is to create a referral program that’s tailored to the interests of your audience.

Also Read: How to Start Cloud Mining Bitcoin Cash

Monetize Your Traffic With a Referral Program

A referral program offers content creators the option to make money from their work, not by getting paid a few cents to display ads, but by sharing revenues based on success. Bitcoin.com offers such a service, related to the promotion of our online gaming section. Joining the Bitcoin Games Referral Program requires no registration and lets you earn up to 25% of the house edge on all bets made by people you direct to the site, with no top limit on how much you can earn.

Bitcoin.com’s entertainment section offers a multitude of games such as Slots, Blackjack, Video Poker, Dice, Roulette, Keno and Craps. Players don’t need to register and can enjoy the games anonymously. At the same time, the platform also offers two-factor authentication, password protected accounts and a dedicated customer support team. These features make it easy to get involved, and ensure a steady stream of revenues from the players you referred.

To join the referral program all you have to do is go to the Bitcoin Games referral page, and your account will already be automatically set up. There you can find your unique referral link and banners in many shapes and sizes to share. The same page can also be used to track your earnings and referral statistics.

Have you tried the Bitcoin Games referral program? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Satoshi’s Pulse, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.