DATE:  24.03.2020, 21:11:07
TITLE: Covering the Crazy
URL:   https://bitcoinmagazine.com/issue/covering-the-crazy

Here we go, come with me

There’s a world out there that we should see

Take my hand, close your eyes

With you right here, I’m a rocketeer

Let’s fly (fly, fly, fly, fly)

Up, up here we go, go

Up, up here we go, go

Let’s fly (fly, fly, fly, fly)

Up, up here we go, go

Where we stop nobody knows, knows –”Rocketeer” by Far East Movement

Where are we flying, though?

At Bitcoin Magazine, we pride ourselves on serving the Bitcoin ecosystem as a historical ledger, a resource for keeping up with technical developments and a source of inspiration for the future. And there’s no more exciting (albeit terrifying to some degree) time to be alive than right now.

We’re collectively watching the world open its eyes to the cracks in the current financial systems we have in place.

“Why pay taxes when we can just print the money?”

“Why do we have people starving if we can just print the money?”

“Where’s my money?”

“What even is money?”

Starting this week, we’re going to be tweaking our publishing strategy to prioritize two things: make sense of what’s happening with the current economic situation and prepare for the droves of pre-coiners looking for institutions worthy of trust.

To help make sense of things, we’re actively seeking out contributions from outside of the Bitcoin regulars so our readers can hear from experts in tangential fields. Our assumption is that the best way to indoctrinate new people is to invite them into the fold through the voices they already trust.

We’re also excited about what the world looks like after hyperbitcoinization. What if we do experience hyperinflation in the United States? What type of world would we be living in? Do you believe that civilization is prepared or that we’re going to end up living in isolation in our citadels? We’re open to any speculative fiction pieces and hopefully will have some being published soon.

For the pre-coiners, we’re expanding our guides and evergreen content library more actively. We’ve done a poor job at creating a concrete learning path that connects all of the dots that live within Bitcoin Magazine. We have thousands of articles written by experts that will prove to be insanely valuable in making the bull case for Bitcoin.

However, we also want to link to your content and build up our resources together. There are thousands of ways to tell Bitcoin’s story and we need to put our best foot forward with content that converts. If you have a resource you’d like us to incorporate on our website, emails or podcasts, drop us a note at editor at bitcoinmagazine.com.

To kick things off, this week’s issue leads with “Zero Interest, Limitless Repo and QE4: The Federal Reserve’s Market Operations Explained” by Colin Harper. In here, Colin notes that the “endgame is the endgame” and provides his opinion on how the Fed is creating compounding problems for the United States.

The impact to mining is a topic we’ll be increasing coverage of, especially as we get closer to the Halving. Jessie Wilms put together some firsthand notes in “Coronavirus, The Halving And A Price Drop: Bitcoin Mining Marches On” from Christopher Bendiksen, Danny Masters, Samson Mow and Ryan Porter with their reactions to how miners will be impacted by the economic downturn.

In his first contribution for Bitcoin Magazine, Muneeb Ali gives credit to Bitcoin as “The King of Blockchains” and explains how it can be the foundation for Web 3.0. In the closing of his article, Ali notes that “the solid foundation we need to realize our vision for Web 3.0 is already here; a future Web 3.0 can anchor on Bitcoin.”

To add to last week’s issue, we published two additional pieces: “EARN IT: The US Anti-Encryption Bill That Threatens Private Speech Online” by David Hollerith and “A Treatise On Bitcoin And Privacy Part 2: Don’t Be Misled By Red Herrings” by Giacomo Zucco.

Hollerith’s piece is one of the few deep dives out there on the The EARN IT Act, which has been highlighted because of its potential to strip privacy from United States citizens. Currently, EARN IT has been referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee and it is up to all of us to voice our opinions to our congressmen.

The second piece we added to last week’s issue was Zucco’s second in his series on Bitcoin and privacy. He identifies three major red herrings that we’ve all heard before as justifications to strip our privacy rights away and directly refutes them with fantastic, easy to understand arguments. We can’t thank Zucco enough for this limited series of content. If you haven’t read the first part of this series, I’ll save you a click.