DATE:  24.03.2020, 19:19:34
TITLE: Millions of Users Can Trade Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), XRP on Brave Browser Through New Binance Integration
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/03/24/millions-of-users-can-trade-bitcoin-btc-ethereum-eth-litecoin-ltc-xrp-on-brave-browser-through-new-binance-integration/

‏‏‎

Crypto trading giant Binance and privacy-focused Brave browser have collaborated on a new integration that allows Brave users to trade cryptocurrencies through Binance.

According to the announcement,

“The new Binance widget in the new tab page of the Brave desktop browser makes Brave the only browser that offers integrated functionality for buying and trading cryptocurrency. With the Binance widget, Brave users can access the Binance.com and Binance.US (for US-based users) sites, buy and sell crypto assets, view asset balances, and obtain deposit addresses all without leaving the browser.”

Says Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao,

“The Binance widget on Brave’s privacy-oriented browser instills a safer way to buy and sell crypto and also reduces user friction to onboard, trade and interact with the Binance ecosystem.”

[media-net300x250]

The widget will allow Brave users to buy, deposit, trade and manage leading cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, XRP, Litecoin and other altcoins supported by Binance.

The Brave browser, which combines privacy with a blockchain-based digital advertising platform, has roughly 8.7 million monthly active users across the globe.

Unlike the dominant competitor Google Chrome, which tracks you and your browsing history, Brave blocks trackers, ads and third-party cookies, making it an attractive option, particularly for cryptocurrency users who support decentralized platforms, privacy protection and networking options beyond the control of big tech.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/Fstoppers