DATE:  24.03.2020, 02:03:05
TITLE: Russian central bank wants to curb cryptocurrencies
URL:   https://dailynewsx.in/russian-central-bank-wants-to-curb-cryptocurrencies/

[ad_1]



Sharing is taking care!

The director of the Russian central bank, Alexey Guznov, has signaled that they are against institutions organizing the production of cryptocurrency in Russia Interfax online, Russia's first non-governmental news broadcaster, founded in 1989 and now the largest diversified information group in the CIS.

However, if individual cryptocurrency owners complete their transactions in a jurisdiction that doesn't prohibit it, they're unlikely to be able to track cases.

~ Advertising ~

Russian digital financial investment (CFA) legislation was adopted at first reading in 2018, but has changed significantly since then.

Guznov spoke to Interfax about what consensus the Russian authorities have reached on cryptocurrency circulation in the territory of the Russian Federation, what new conditions and requirements are included in the CFA bill and other key central bank bills.

“The problem with cryptocurrency and, more generally, crypto assets (and this is not just our problem) is that it is not clear how enforcement of them against them can be ensured. For example, a spouse buys crypto assets for the entire amount of income and stores them in a crypto wallet. For example, there is a dispute regarding this property in divorce proceedings, and the court says, "Yes, all revenue must be shared." The court is even ready to issue an enforcement order. "

“And then I want to look at the bailiff who will try to do something based on this enforcement order. Where, to whom, with what? Commit someone with keys to access a crypto wallet to provide an access key? Theoretically, it is possible, but you can say, "Oh, forget it. Oh, lost. "Unfortunately, many crypto assets are already in wallets that have lost access keys, and this in itself leads to problems."

“We couldn't ignore this, and so the project is to oblige the operator of the information system, where the release of digital financial assets is done to give access to them if necessary. Technologically, as colleagues say, this is possible, although this may be somewhat at odds with the notorious Bitcoin's ideology, which is based on anonymity and the fact that no one other than the owner can access the corresponding conditional property in the form of Bitcoins, which in what something put in the wallet. "

“The bill solved the problem, including the issue of secured digital financial assets. The decision to issue may therefore indicate that digital financial assets will be issued as secured by the property of their issuer or third parties, a description of the subject of the collateral and the terms of the collateral. "

He added that The legalization of cryptocurrency circulation poses great risks, both in terms of financial stability and the anti-money laundering system, and in terms of protecting consumer rights and the central bank contested the fact that this "tool" was, as it were, legalized as the subject of the appeal.

"It may be that nobody forbids you to have digital currency. To some extent, this is absurd, and in general, it's not the reason, it's still not drugs or weapons. From the point of view of the functioning of the financial system and the consumer protection system, the legalization of the problem and above all the organization of the cryptocurrency circulation is an unjustified risk. Therefore, the draft law directly formulates a ban on the issuance and organization of the distribution of cryptocurrency and introduces liability for violations of this ban. "

Guznov also explained that the initiative is to make it easier to revoke fraud licenses, close or bankrupt them, and to determine which parts of the government can take action against cryptocurrency companies.

The new legislation will enable law enforcement agencies to act more efficiently in any case.

The American company HashCash Consultants announces Coronavirus Crypto Relief Fund or CFIX

Alibaba Group implementing blockchain technology for the world's largest e-commerce website

Crypto.com Shortens Deal With Oveit For Crypto Payments In The Event Industry

Russian central bank wants to curb cryptocurrencies

The legendary Silicon Valley investor Tim Draper is optimistic about Indian blockchain and cryptocurrency startups

Former Republican Senator of the State of Washington, David Schmidt, was beaten up by the SEC in an immediate measure against crypto fraud

The seven-year-old veteran Crown platform enables the NFT framework to tag assets on the Crown blockchain

CovidTrial.io – online open data study on COVID-19 prevention by MD and blockchain experts

Virtual remote platform Celo Camp offers startups competitive prices worth $ 25,000 to create apps on the Celo blockchain

Mature technology and neogene work together to bring blockchain for food safety and animal genomics

HYPE: Bitcoin trading now open via Banca Sella to 1.2 million Italian customers during the block

Conversion of Argentina's natural gas infrastructure to blockchain technology

Venezuelan banks closed – P2P bitcoin trade surge

Blockchain and AI technologies to fight the coronavirus – Covid-19 as an immuno-oncology company Mateon works with Meridian IT to accelerate drug manufacturing

Blockchain Cryptocurrency Ripple works with the Thai money transfer company DeeMoney

US $ 50 million Blockchain for India fund announced for Binance's Indian startup ecosystem

Hard Fork for Steem Network Set for Friday, March 18, 2020 – New community is called Hive

Crypto Giant Bakkt Raises $ 300 Million in Series B Funding

To hedge BTC's volatility, Phemex introduces a GOLD / USD pair to trade indefinite gold contracts up to 100 times leverage

Engage more supporters of Blockchain Company Fluree in the seed extension funding round show all articles

Also published on medium.