DATE:  26.03.2020, 12:01:22
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino IO adds Treasure Skyland Slot Machine by Microgaming
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-io-adds-treasure-skyland-slot-machine-by-microgaming/012212

The Treasure Skyland slot comes from the stables of Microgaming and has now been added to Bitcoin Casino IO’s list of games. It has five reels and twenty pay lines. The slot is based on monkey pirates from the sky and it can be played on all devices from 10 pence to £100 for each spin.

The game comes with an RTP of 96.18 percent, it comes with a Feature Reel which can lead to 5 bonus features – there are symbol upgrades, added wilds, wild transformations, multipliers up to 4x and a pick me game where 1,000 x stake prizes are up for grabs.

Treasure Skyland has an exceptional theme and you can join several monkey pirates’ right there in the sky. With colourful and bright graphics, you’ll see skies filled with clouds and islands all lying in the backdrop. With royal coins like A, K, Q, J and 10 on the reels, the three monkey pirates feature on the reels.

There is also the Treasure Skyland symbol that’s is the most profiting – 3, 4 or 5 in combo will give you 6, 24 or 80x the sum you stake. To assist you in forming wins, you get the treasure map wild symbol that appears on reels 2, 3 and 4 – together with replacing all symbols except the scatter, and it rewards just like the Treasure Skyland logo that has high value.

There is a ship’s wheel, feature frame that moves around on each base game spin randomly. If you land a winning combo involved with the helm, and the Feature Reel comes into play. The reel begins to spin to pay you with a random feature. Here is what you get:

The Pick Bonus feature is what you would expect with an additional of this title– you’ll see fifteen choices. You can make picks to win cash prizes that move you on the treasure map.

Beginning with five picks, the rewards get bigger when you go further. The top prize is estimated to be about 1,000 times the sum you stake.

In truth, The Treasure Skyland slot looks quite good – we like the fact bettors can gain from five bonus features from the base game randomly. The extra that comes with the most prospects is the Multiplier feature which comes with 4 times multiplier can lead to the biggest wins.

High variance – you can win an estimated 1,094 times the sum you stake on every spin – you can also win about 1,000 times the sum you stake from the Pick Bonus feature which is quite handy.

With an RTP set at 96.18 percent, 1 – 4 spins should give you a winning combo that’ll keep you enthralled for quite some time.