DATE:  26.03.2020, 20:26:30
TITLE: CME Board Nominee Champions Bitcoin (BTC) Mining, Proposes Blockchain Trading and Tokenized Shares
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/03/26/cme-board-nominee-champions-bitcoin-btc-mining-proposes-blockchain-trading-and-tokenized-shares/

‏‏‎

The founder of the Fortezza Forza RMC Fund, Dante Federighi, has outlined his fresh perspective on how to leverage CME Group’s position as the world’s largest futures exchange, as the industry leader enters an increasingly digital environment utilizing blockchain-based assets and financial platforms. He thinks it’s time for CME to start mining Bitcoin (BTC) and cryptocurrencies as well as issue tokenized shares.

Federighi, a candidate for the CME board of directors focused on class B-2 shareholders, says digitizing and fractionalizing B shares and letting them trade freely and openly on a blockchain to track ownership and transactions will drive efficiency.

“We can provide superior liquidity to B-share owners; enable future owners to gradually buy into a membership over time; and create significant new revenue streams for our trading right owners.”

Part of his strategy would be to implement a new governance system of one user per “New CME Token” that could eliminate “all 106 and electronic corporate structures.” By allowing the New CME Token to be fractionalized and leased, Federighi imagines a stream of untapped leasing opportunities, higher trading volume and a more liquid market for trading CME products.

To stay ahead of the technology curve, Federighi also proposes a plan for mining the world’s leading cryptocurrency, along with unspecified altcoins, by moving into renewable energies to subsidize the effort.

“Some of our largest investors, i.e. BlackRock, are shifting investments to companies focused on creating value for all their stakeholders. The CME Group needs to get in front of this trend by building solar/wind/hydro energy plants to power our global operations. Then divert the excess energy to mine Bitcoin and other crypto currencies.”

Earlier this month, Bloomberg reported that a natural gas power plant in the central region of New York State is mining roughly 5.5 Bitcoin (BTC) per day, currently worth $36,685, by using the electricity it produces. Its private-equity parent company, Atlas Holding, installed 7,000 miners to generate profits.

‏‏‎

Adds Federighi,

“While this seems outside of our core competencies, I’d argue this is our business: we, like the miners, match and clear trades. We’d immediately converted any newly minted crypto into fiat.

The net-net is another new revenue stream for shareholders; deep knowledge in new technologies changing the global exchange landscape for the CME; and increased allocation to ESG-focused businesses by investors. That’s a win-win-win.”

Federighi has been a CME member since 1997.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/GreenBelka