DATE:  26.03.2020, 07:11:39
TITLE: Desperate Bitcoin Scam Threatens to ‘Infect Your Whole Family with Coronavirus’
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/bitcoin-scam-threatens-infect-family-coronavirus/

Bitcoin BUY NOW scammers are always coming up with new, and oftentimes pathetic and predatory ways to steal funds. A recent scheme shows how desperate they have become.

ExecuteMalware (@executemalware) reported on a humorous and feeble attempt by a scammer who demanded Bitcoin as ransom — and if the victim refused, the scammer said they would “infect your entire family with coronavirus The majority of cryptocurrency assets, along with the entire global financial sector have taken a sizeable hit in the last... More.”

Scammers Leveraging Coronavirus to Steal your Crypto

Everyone had a laugh today at a recent scammer’s attempt to extort a victim. The screenshot, posted by ExecuteMalware, shows the messages that were sent.

In it, the scammer demands that the victim pay $4,000 to him in Bitcoin (BTC). He then posts his Bitcoin address and gives the victim 24 hours to make the payment. If not, the scammer says that ‘I will infect every member of your family with the CoronaVirus.’

All threat actors are trying to jump on the bandwagon – no matter how nonsensical: I've hacked your PC so "if I want, I could even infect your whole family with the CoronaVirus" . 🤭 Idiot… pic.twitter.com/UE8d6lkaaY — ExecuteMalware (@executemalware) March 20, 2020

They go on to say, ‘No matter how smart you are, believe me, if I want to affect, I can.’

The false threat elicited laughs from replies and shows just how desperate Bitcoin scammers have become amid this pandemic.

This threat was apparently sent to many individuals. It seems that many scammers are now trying to jump on the bandwagon, using any scare tactic relating to the COVID-19 pandemic to claim more victims.

Getting Desperate

Here at BeInCrypto, we often report on the novel ways scammers in the cryptocurrency space try to steal funds. A popular method in the past few months, for example, was through giveaways via YouTube live videos.

Sometimes, these amoral low-lives try to extort senior citizens, who are most vulnerable. As BeInCrypto reported on earlier this year, one British woman lost her entire life savings to such a fraudulent scheme. Projects that promise returns are sadly still common. Canadian regulators recently busted two firms engaging in such practices. Sometimes, exchanges are to blame as well, such as the recent SMS phishing messages many Turkish Binance users reporting receiving a few weeks ago.

Scammers will use any fear tactic they possibly can to extort victims — that much is perfectly clear. That’s why they’re even threatening families with the Coronavirus to get their pay-out. So, although we like to laugh at these absurd threats, it is always wise to report them. Doing so just may help a future victim.

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.