DATE:  26.03.2020, 12:15:27
TITLE: Paxful lists 10 women to watch in blockchain & Bitcoin, three of which are from SA
URL:   https://www.htxt.co.za/2020/03/26/paxful-lists-10-women-to-watch-in-blockchain-bitcoin-three-of-which-are-from-sa/

March is International Women’s Month but, in recent weeks, its focus has been stolen by the COVID-19 pandemic.

That said, some are now looking to technologies like blockchain and cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin as a means to assist while people work remotely, remain socially distant and try to secure the necessary essentials they need for an impending national lockdown.

This brings us to Paxful, which is normally known as a marketplace for crypto, but is now focusing on the female leaders on the African continent who are making significant strides in the blockchain and Bitcoin industries.

Paxful has highlighted 10 in particular, and we’re proud to see three of them hailing from South Africa.

“This year’s International Women’s Day theme, #EachforEqual is drawn from a notion that ‘collectively, each one of us can help create a gender-equal world’. The tech sector rightly gets a bad rap for not yet being inclusive enough,” says Ray Youssef, co-founder and CEO of Paxful.

“As an industry, we can all do better. Beyond a moral imperative, there’s no question that tech businesses and our society can only benefit from embracing talent with diverse backgrounds, experiences, values, and ideas,” he adds.

The inaugural list of African female leaders is as follows:

1. Ojuedeire Doris (Nigeria), founder of Blockchain African Ladies (BAL).

2. Alakanani Itireleng (Botswana), founder of Satoshicentre.

3. Yaliwe Soko (Zambia/South Africa), founder and chairwoman of United Africa Blockchain Association (UABA).

4. Monica Singer (South Africa), country lead at Consensys SA.

5. Sonya Kuhnel (South Africa), founder ofBlockchain Academy; co-founder/director of Bitcoin Events; co-founder/COO of Xago.

6. Imen Ayari (Tunisia), head of Innovation Factory.

7. Roselyn Gicira Mwangi (Kenya), chairperson of Blockchain Association of Kenya; head of the Kenyan Women in Blockchain Chapter.

8. Naomi Snyman (South Africa), blockchain lead at Standard Bank Group; chair for the South African Financial Blockchain Consortium.

9. Michelle Chivunga Nsunsumuco (Zambia), founder, CEO, and investor of Global Policy House; senior advisor to Government of Bermuda (Global Fintech Advisory Board).

10. Olayinka Odeniran (Nigeria), co-founder of the Black Women Blockchain Council (BWBC).

“Personally, I think women are better at tech. Women add a new dimension to innovation, they’re better collaborators, community builders and in many ways better problem solvers. And as such are absolutely critical to the future of the blockchain and bitcoin ecosystem,” notes Youssef.

“Paxful is committed to growing female participation in the sector, and especially championing female talent from emerging markets,” he concludes.