DATE:  19.04.2020, 17:28:18
TITLE: "Gold and bitcoin will be better than money", says Luis Stuhlberger, from Verde Asset
URL:   https://ourbitcoinnews.com/gold-and-bitcoin-will-be-better-than-money-says-luis-stuhlberger-from-verde-asset/

Manager Luis Stuhlberger, of Verde Asset Management, made an apocalyptic prediction regarding the future of money in the world. And he cited bitcoin as one of the few investments that will actually have value in the long run.

“The worst thing you can have is money. Probably both gold, bitcoin or earth will be better than money, ”said Stuhlberger last Saturday (18).

Stulhberger's speech occurred during a live organized by the investment broker XP. The statement came when the manager was asked about recent decisions by the Fed, the United States Central Bank, to stimulate the economy. Among them are the impression of more dollars and the purchase of securities considered “rotten”, with a high possibility of default, which tends to devalue “fiat” currencies in the long run.

Before quoting bitcoin, Stuhlberger began by saying that there will come a day when states' debts will be priceless. And that, on that day, "the worst thing you can have is money".

"One day you will wake up and find that your money is worthless," he said, comparing this situation to a "worldwide Collor Plan".

It is a reference to the disastrous economic measure taken during the government of Fernando Collor de Mello (1990-1992) that confiscated the savings of millions of Brazilians. This decision until today generates lawsuits to recover at least part of the losses.

‘Right actions in the right place’

The live promoted by XP also had the participation of another representative of Verde Assets, the executive Luiz Parreiras. He adds that the stocks and bonds of good companies, positioned in good markets, will also have long-term value.

"If the money itself is going to be questioned, what will be left to invest are the shares of the good companies that won this crisis and the next ones".

Such a view, according to Parreiras, justifies Verde's decision to place most of the R $ 42 billion in investments under the fund's management in stock exchanges in the United States.

Watch the video below:

Effects on bitcoin

In addition to the Fed, whose shares total a $ 2.3 trillion stimulus to the US economy, other Central Banks worldwide have followed the same line to alleviate the crisis.

The Brazilian Central Bank, for example, implemented actions that aim to release R $ 1.2 trillion to the market.

These aggressive measures of economic stimulus from the Fed are expected to have an influence on bitcoin, as shown by a report on the Decrypt portal reproduced by Bitcoin Portal. However, experts still differ on the effects, both in the short and long term.

Buy Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies at the safest broker in Brazil. Register and see how simple it is, visit: