DATE:  19.04.2020, 05:30:19
TITLE: Liquidity Provider B2C2 Launches Gold Derivative Settled in Bitcoin
URL:   https://sunriseread.com/liquidity-provider-b2c2-launches-gold-derivative-settled-in-bitcoin/89775/

Crypto liquidity and OTC supplier B2C2 has launched a gold derivatives product that synthetically trades in opposition to bitcoin in what the agency says is a crucial evolution in the safe-haven asset buying and selling house.

Launched in 2015 and receiving regulatory approval for crypto derivatives in the U.Okay. earlier this yr, B2C2 provides bulk crypto purchases by means of its API service.

With the agency’s new product, purchasers can bodily settle artificial trades with bitcoin, which correspond to bodily gold saved in vaults. Artificial positions mix numerous underlying property to imitate the returns of one other product with out truly holding the product.

The agency informed CoinDesk in an e-mail that the good thing about the setup is that “it’s easier to commerce than the money underlier for a wide range of operational causes, and sometimes represents the vast majority of exercise in the product/asset.”

Shoppers can settle the commerce with quite a few cryptocurrencies. “These tokens will give them entry to the underlying steel since they correspond to possession of bodily gold in vaults,” B2C2 stated.

In an announcement, founder and CEO of B2C2 Max Boonen stated the gold and bitcoin’s roles as haven property spurred the merchandise improvement:

“The present macro surroundings, dominated by uncertainty over financial progress and inflation, is prompting central banks to rethink financial coverage and market members to reassess the possible path of rates of interest.”

12 months-to-date, bitcoin’s worth has doubled adopted by a 15 p.c bump for gold, at present sitting at $1,500 per ounce.

“Conflicting narratives abound, fueling market exercise, and we anticipate demand to solely develop for tactics to realize and handle publicity to deflationary property comparable to gold and bitcoin,” Boonen added.

Nonetheless, as CoinDesk beforehand reported, bitcoin’s current worth strikes haven't been absolutely indicative of the digital gold mantra its proponents have rallied behind.

Fears of a U.S. recession have resurfaced in current days and the ensuing danger aversion shortly introduced a lift to gold costs. Bitcoin, although, has been considerably slower to select up bids.

Gold bars picture through Shutterstock