DATE:  19.04.2020, 14:00:52
TITLE: Looking for Remote Cryptocurrency Jobs? Here Are Top Bitcoin Jobs
URL:   https://coindoo.com/looking-for-remote-cryptocurrency-jobs-here-are-top-bitcoin-jobs/

While the current coronavirus pandemic has limited job opportunities and has led to the shutdown of many businesses, there are many bitcoin job offers in the crypto industry that you can do remotely. In today’s article, we have compiled a list with some of the best sites where you can find bitcoin jobs that allow you to work directly from home.

CryptoJobs

CryptoJobs is one of the most used sites where you can find blockchain and bitcoin jobs. There are more than 1,527 jobs posted on the site from blockchain companies from all over the world. Here you can find job offers in customer support, content creation, copywriting, design, marketing, with most of them being freelancer positions where you can work remotely. As a freelancer, you can even opt for multiple jobs on the site.

Crypto Jobs List

CryptoJobsList currently has more than 1000 blockchain, cryptocurrency, and Bitcoin jobs, such as blockchain developers, software engineers, technical, marketing, and brand ambassador positions. You can directly search for remote jobs by accessing the “Remote” section.

Cryptocurrencyjobs.co

While the selection is more limited on this site, you can still find more than 100 current remote blockchain job ads posted by top companies in the industry, such as Binance, Xapo, and Bitrefill.

If you are looking for positions as a frontend, backend, or full-stack developer, this is a great website to find such opportunities. You can filter searches on category and job type, as well as remote full and part-time positions, by clicking on the dropdown menu and clicking Remote.

Blockew

Blockew is a job platform that allows both the employer to post his job offerings and for freelancers to post their resume. Many employers use their resume database to look for applicants for positions that aren’t advertised online, and they will directly contact the candidates. You can also scour through the list of crypto and bitcoin jobs and directly send your application to the employers. While not all positions are remote, you still have a chance of finding many remote opportunities.

In their “Job Opportunities” menu, you can easily find remote jobs posted by Kraken, Brave, Coinbase, Robinhood, Chainlink as well as other well-known crypto firms.

Remoteok.io

Remoteok.io is a platform that features only remote working options. The site claims to have the largest offering of jobs dedicated to freelancers who work entirely online. Here you can browse 39,000 listed vacancies from various blockchain companies.

BlockAce

A job board for finding blockchain jobs, BlockAce, allows you to search posts based on your selected keyword, and you can narrow the search even more by clicking on the “Remote Only” button. The job entries are from big companies, such as Ripple, IBM, and Kraken.

CryptoRecruit

This recruitment agency focuses on recruiting only from the blockchain and cryptocurrency industry. CryptoRecruit classifies offers in various categories, such as software developers, IT infrastructure, social media, support service, and many others. To list only remote options, click on the “Location” dropdown and select “Remote.”

Blocktribe

While there are fewer options, Blocktribe is a job board where you can browse more than 300 blockchain and bitcoin jobs. You can apply for a variety of remote positions, full and part-time.

Blockchain Job Board

This Blockchain Job Board is another platform dedicated to bitcoin job listings. The simple interface has been designed to allow you to pinpoint your searches based on keywords, job titles, location, and more. Most posts are for developers, architects, and engineers, but you can also find various bitcoin-related jobs, including some that are remote.

Blockchain Dev Jobs

Blockchain Dev Jobs is a site that caters exclusively to blockchain developers and engineers for various sectors of the tech industry. Candidates can find posts looking for Node.js engineers, Python developers, DevOps engineers, QA testers, etc.

Applicants can look for full and part-time jobs, as well as contract gigs. For stay-at-home jobs, look for the remote tag on the listing.

CryptomCareers

Crypto Careers also features a comprehensive list of blockchain jobs. The site lists ads from prominent companies from the crypto space, such as Binance and Storj, and you can also limit your search to only display the remote jobs you are interested in.

DCG

Digital Currency Group is a company that builds and provides support for Bitcoin and blockchain companies. The site also regularly features a job board that has positions from over a hundred companies with more than 800 jobs available.

You can also check the dozens of Facebook Groups that actively post job offers on a daily basis, where you are bound to find some blockchain and crypto opportunities from time to time.

Top Companies that Are Hiring

Kraken

Kraken is a US-based crypto exchange that has been active in the crypto space for many years now and has earned itself a good reputation. As the platform is in a continuous expansion, it is always seeking for new employees. Kraken currently has more than 20 remote jobs available, looking for personnel in sales, marketing, engineering, content, community, and customer support.

IOHK

Established by Ethereum and Cardano co-founder, Charles Hoskinson, the IOHK is a Hong Kong-based company that works in partnership with various teams distributed around the globe. You can apply for positions in Marketing, Customer Support, Engineering, and Business Development.

Xapo

Xapo is a bitcoin wallet provider that is backed by top names in the industry: Benchmark, Greylock Partners, Index Ventures, Fortress Investment Group, Ribbit Capital, and Emergence Capital Partners. The company and its operations are completely remote; therefore any job offered here can be done from home.

Binance

Binance is probably the most known name in the entire crypto industry and has been praised for having an impeccable track record and transparent approach. Around 50 job offers are always open at a global level, with more than 20% consisting of remote positions.

Conclusion

There are many employment options in the blockchain and crypto space, with small startups to big companies posting offers on a daily basis. With thousands of remote jobs that keep multiplying day by day, you are bound to find several jobs to fit your qualifications.

Featured image: kryptomoney.com