DATE:  19.04.2020, 09:45:32
TITLE: Top 5 Sites to Find Crypto Assets Giveaway
URL:   https://bittmint.com/top-5-sites-to-find-crypto-assets-giveaway/1801/

Cryptocurrency is a popular platform acting as a medium of exchange. The digitalized cash system needs a bank account just like we need in other regular transactions where we need to keep a sufficient balance for exchanging. There are websites that allow for the selling, buying or trading of cryptocurrencies for digital and other traditional currencies like Euro and USD. There are a number of simple and highly reliable cryptocurrency exchange platforms available for selling or buying cryptocurrencies. For example, visit this site which provides crypto asset management service and also profits for managing assets via them. In this article we have mentioned the top 5 sites to find crypto assets giveaway.

#1 Kraken

Kraken is best for those who are just a beginner. You will not only get the necessary guidance but can become expert also. It basically highlights the way how people understand money and finance.

Key features

Useful for both experts and newcomers

Simple to use, offers portfolio management to keep track of the profile

Safe and secure digital platform

24/7 availability through their global support system

Advanced features help listing your financial resources. You can easily find an investor pair.

Provides support to all sized investors since kraken handles capital by their exclusive solution.

Offers competitive pricing plans and flexible processes.

#2 Bittrex

It is known for its cutting edge technology. Bittrex has highly increased the demand for cryptocurrency around the world. The main focus is on minimizing the time of the transaction. One of the most high-level cryptocurrency trading site aims at changing the way of transactions for goods using its innovative technology.

Key features

There are cross-sectional layers alongside diversifying security schemes making bittrex an effective and reliable platform.

The dynamic API and algorithmic trading makes it usable for integrating third-party trading platforms.

Transactions are completed in real-time. The scalable engine helps in minimizing the time.

Concentrates on anti-money laundering.

Uses modern technology to record the data of token order and digital wallets are also available for instant trading.

#3 Coinbase

It is one of the largest bitcoin exchanging websites with features like digital wallet, API for developers to connect third-party apps and trading as well as vaults to store reserves. It offers liquidity and security.

Can't load widget

Key features

Simple and easy to understand.

You can make payment through visa, mastercard, etc.

Bitcoin can be bought using a credit card as a backup but there is a buying limit.

Transactions are completed in real-time.

Highly efficient

The buying limit is high and fee is comparatively low.

#4 Bitbuy

It is the most responsive and fast platform for processing crypto transactions. The services are only provided in Canada still the numbers of traders are quite high. The platform has grown rapidly because of its direct customer service and easy activation of user accounts.

Key features

Highly secure since it provides 2-factor text-based authentication and sophisticated IT base.

They store more than 95% of their customer’s coins in the cold wallets and don’t disclose it online.

High amount of money can be deposited and several payment options are available.

The platform doesn’t compare the rate for all currencies but only Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ether, Litecoin and Ripple.

Funding can be done in 2 hours through Express Interac e-Transfer deposit method.

#5 Bitstamp

They are the leaders in the industry providing better service and protection. There is no withdrawal limit. You can cash out directly to the bank account.

Key features

Highly reliable and more than 98% of digital assets is stored in cold storage.

Simple user interface encourages beginners.

The advanced, unique tools gives the insights of the market.

There are several account types and security features like multi-sig technology.

FIX and HTTP APIs can help you deploy your own set of strategies on market place or trading sites.

Conclusion

The latest buzzword in the market cryptocurrency is going to replace traditional currency in the near future. So get yourself accustomed with the concept of cryptos and how to deal with cryptocurrencies. Choose a good platform and start your journey. Keep in mind the exchange rates, payment methods, deposit types, account management and security while choosing the cryptocurrency trading site.