DATE:  19.04.2020, 17:44:51
TITLE: Viral Scams, Steem Bribes, and Zoom Hacks: Dangerous Crypto Information of the Week
URL:   https://fintechzoom.com/fintech-news-bitcoin-news/viral-scams-steem-bribes-and-zoom-hacks-bad-crypto-news-of-the-week/

Try this week’s Dangerous Crypto Information.

Bitcoin has had a tough week, down round 9 % and buying and selling beneath $6,700. Ross Ulbricht, the founding father of Silk Highway, believes we’re in a bear market that might even take the worth underneath $3,200. Ulbricht is serving two life sentences for cash laundering, pc hacking, and conspiracy to visitors narcotics. Mike Novogratz disagrees. The famed investor and CEO of Galaxy Digital Holdings Ltd., is seeing higher adoption of Bitcoin, together with amongst hedge funds and high-net price people. He’s shorting shares however believes “that is the time for Bitcoin.”

It’s actually time for debt. The US nationwide debt has now damaged by means of $24 trillion because the Fed continues to print cash to pay for the shutdown. That led Robert Kiyosaki to face with Novogratz. The creator of Wealthy Dad, Poor Dad thinks that each one that free cash makes Bitcoin a greater purchase than fiat. In the meantime, Bitcoin comes nearer to its halving.

All isn’t quiet within the cryptoworld although. Dan Hensley, a significant stakeholder in Steem, has accused Justin Solar of bribing his strategy to the highest of the platform. Hensley says that when Solar noticed that he was dropping a voting warfare, he began promising folks $2,500 a month to run a witness node. He supplied “cash, energy, and customers,” says Hensley. The FBI is warning that crypto holders are susceptible to coronavirus-related scams. Scammers are asking for faux donations and even threatening to contaminate computer systems with the virus. And a US courtroom has ordered Craig Wright to supply paperwork proving that he has entry to over 1,000,000 Bitcoins. Wright, who has claimed to be Bitcoin inventor Satoshi Nakamoto, wants to supply 11,000 paperwork to indicate that he can entry 1.1 million Bitcoins mined along with his late companion Dave Kleiman. Wright has beforehand been accused of perjury and forging paperwork. And on the darknet, hackers, trolls, and different basement dwellers are promoting and making a gift of half 1,000,000 hacked Zoom accounts. Zoom’s vulnerabilities have led some to counsel that blockchain know-how may supply a safe answer.

Governments are displaying extra curiosity within the blockchain. China has a plan to drive world blockchain adoption—and construct the infrastructure community that permits it. And quite a few US authorities businesses have warned that North Korea is now hacking cryptocurrency exchanges.

In higher information, Taiwan tech agency HTC has confirmed that its Exodus blockchain telephone will let customers mine cryptocurrency. They’ll make $0.0038 a day on common. With a model of the telephone obtainable for round $244, customers will have the ability to repay the price of their gadgets in about 176 years. If HTC wants assist with that math, the blockchain is able to assist with that too. The rise of distance studying is resulting in a take-up in blockchain-based training certificates.

And at last, John McAfee has sage recommendation for us all. He doesn’t know what is going to occur with fiat or crypto. So he recommends shopping for peanut butter. You possibly can’t go incorrect with that.