DATE:  06.03.2020, 05:48:09
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Racetrack Riches Slot Machine by iSoftBet
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-racetrack-riches-slot-machine-by-isoftbet/480905

Racetrack Riches Megaboard gives you 5 reels, popular of these days for a new slot, and its 20-line setup is no different either. You will theoretically get top 5,000x wins on the bet, so you could get up to $100,000. Bank on the Jockey Wilds game, Win Spins, Trophy scatters and the Megaboard bonus. The game can be played on Bitcoincasino.io.

You can spend as little as $0.20 as you get to play on 20 active lines, and the game will find that enough to cause a spin. The line bet may however go higher, even up to $1, resulting in a total bet of $20 per turn.

During its daily spins the game will have modest top payouts, with the best combinations offering 25x the stake per side, and 500x for a full screen. Nevertheless, it is possible to apply 10x multipliers to wins won from the Megaboard game, resulting in 5,000x stake payouts for the best free spins. Translated into real winning potential, this means you can get a $100,000 payout per turn.

Next, let’s check out the wild sign, the one portrayed by a toy horse riding Jockey. It will prove useful as a substitute symbol often enough, becoming part of all kinds of winning combinations.

Jockey Wilds is a random function, where the jockey runs across the game area, leaving wild symbols in random positions.Win Spins are also random, but only activated without winning combinations after the spins. The jockey goes over the reels once again, helping to shape a win.

When Trophy scatters appear on three reels (1,3,5), the game will give you its bonus Megaboard. There may also be a 2nd chance, as a Rainbow Respin, if only two of the appropriate symbols appear initially.

The Megaboard is kind of like a board game, where you progress using dice rolls. The outcome determines what additional feature you’ll get for the next free spin. You’re trying to finish 3 laps to get the Big Money Bonus, but the bonus ends early if the other jockey catches you. Dice rolls and the board gets multipliers, wilds, mystery symbols, removals of symbols, winning spins or the Big Money Bonus.

If you receive Big Money Bonus, you can get a multiplier of up to 10x for all your Megaboard free spins wins.The game has a theme of horse racing, and it approaches it as something of a cartoon style. As you get champagne, horseshoes, caps filled with gold and pints of beer it looks like there are some luck based graphics as well. The card suits will also be less appealing. Type icons are shown with Jockey photos and a Trophy. You’ll also note the horse racing perspective used for the surrounding graphics, as behind the reels the racetrack is noticeable.