DATE:  06.03.2020, 11:00:09
TITLE: KawBet Casino Review: Anonymous Crypto Payments and Bitcoin Bonuses
URL:   https://coindoo.com/kawbet-casino-review-anonymous-crypto-payments-and-bitcoin-bonuses/

The world of online casinos and sports betting has greatly expanded in the past few years. More and more people are starting to engage in this type of activity, and the introduction of cryptocurrencies as a method of payment has also made things more convenient.

But how do you find an anonymous Bitcoin casino and know that it is trustworthy? Here is where KawBet comes in.

What Is KawBet?

KawBet is a casino and betting site that is based on blockchain technology, which makes it decentralized and transparent. Also, another benefit of blockchain implementation is that it allows punters to use cryptocurrencies to perform anonymous transactions.

Cryptocurrencies are not tied to any bank or credit accounts like fiat, which means there is no paper trail of your online gambling activities. Moreover, crypto transactions are executed at faster rates than normal e-payments, allowing users to instantly make deposits and withdrawals on the KawBet platform.

Is KawBet Licensed?

KawBet is a licensed casino and sports betting platform, which is owned and managed by the Pnxtech N.V company. The parent company is a fully registered and complied with the laws of Curacao, and its subsidiary respects these regulations. The website is also licensed and regulated by Gaming Services Provider N.V.

If you are looking for a fully regulated and anonymous Bitcoin casino, look no further than KawBet.

Payment Options

KawBet allows users to deposit and withdraw their funds in a variety of cryptos, including Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, Dogecoin, Ethereum Classic, DigiByte, Bitcoin Cash, Dash, Monero, Zcash, NEM, Tether, Basic Attention Token, Stratis, OmiseGo, Bitshares, Ripple, Tron, Bitcoin Gold, Chainlink, Paxos, TrueUSD, USD Coin, Qtum, and Verge. The platform uses a default currency called MBT, or Millibitcoin, which represents 0,001 of a Bitcoin.

Game Selection

The site has a sports betting section where you can place a variety of bets on football, basketball, volley, hockey, ping pong, and even e-sports. Punters can also place live bets on this anonymous Bitcoin sportsbook.

Their slot section comprises hundreds of titles from well-know and reputable game providers, such as IronDog, EvoPLay, Amatic, GameArt, Betsoft, Habanero, Evolution Gaming, and dozens more. Here you can find 3D slots, jackpot, progressive, baccarat, bingo, blackjack, poker, keno, roulette, and many more.

There is also a live casino section where players can interact with each other in a number of table game variations.

Place Anonymous Bitcoin Bets

The use of BTC and other cryptos means that players don’t need to go through lengthy KYC procedures and provide sensitive documents and information to prove their identity. This is why KawBet is a great anonymous Bitcoin sportsbook in comparison to other gambling and betting platforms.

You can easily place live bets and play entertaining slots without having to worry that your bank is keeping tabs on your activity and winnings.

First Deposit Bonus

This anonymous Bitcoin casino also rewards its users when they make their first deposit on the platform.

In order to be eligible to receive the deposit bonuses, you will have to deposit at least 5 mBTC (or equivalent in another currency).

Below is a list of the maximum amount you can claim for a deposit:

for the 1st deposit – 100% bonus up to 1 BTC;

for the 2nd deposit – 50% bonus up to 1 BTC;

for the 3rd deposit – 100% bonus up to 2 BTC;

for the 4th deposit – 50% bonus up to 3 BTC.

Of course, you will have to meet the minimum deposit conditions and other wagering requirements stipulated in their terms and conditions to be able to receive and withdraw the bonus.

Affiliate Program

KawBet also features an affiliate program that allows users to earn up to 20% of all profits by directly referring other users to the platform. Furthermore, the website offers a variety of marketing tools that can be customized to fit the needs of affiliates.

The casino platform also gives users the opportunity to make up to 40% of the proceeds of direct affiliate’s profits. All affiliate earnings are credited to the respective user’s accounts every week in mBTC.

Conclusion

KawBet is a crypto-only casino and sportsbook which supports a wide diversity of digital assets, games, and betting options.