DATE:  06.03.2020, 09:54:39
TITLE: Ripple XRP Supported by BRD Wallet Aaron Voisine States Why
URL:   https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/12216/ripple-xrp-supported-by-brd-wallet-aaron-voisine-states-why/

Aaron Voisine, Co-Founder and President at Bread, was questioned about the BRD Wallet and on how technology facilitates mainstream adoption of digital assets more real.

Aaron Voisine stated, it’s just an app for mobile devices, Android, and IOS. He further stated the intention of it is just to make cryptocurrency really simple, safe, easy, and convenient to use.

BRD added the XRP support

He further stated, what differentiates BRD Wallet from other wallets is that there are Bitcoin wallets, which connect directly to the bitcoin peer-to-peer network. So, even if all the servers go away, get seized, or the company shuts down or whatever, you still have access to all your money.

BRD is a multi-currency cryptocurrency app which aims to make the trading of digital assets as simple, safe, and convenient as possible, in nearly 170 countries. Voisine highlights the increased utility and the demand for XRP as reasons for why BRD added the XRP support.

Voisine stated, in supporting lots of different cryptocurrencies for our consumer wallet, we had to build out a back end kind of enterprise grade service, for peer-to-peer networks. Since it runs on mobile devices, there needs to be a lightweight kind of mobile oriented protocol. Our goal was to eventually get there hopefully for all the blockchain, for things like Ethereum. The lightweight mobile protocol is not quite ready yet.

So we’re doing that through a system that we call server assistance sinking using our set backend to do that.

Ripple XRP – Lightweight Protocol

Sydney Ifergan, the Crypto Expert tweeted: “We are now able to see BRD wallet Supporting Ripple XRP. Ultimately, lot of support is set to flow from one blockchain network to another increasing interoperability and eventually improving the use of the overall cryptocurrency ecosystem. A better Crypto World.”

Voisine stated, there’s a lightweight protocol for bitcoin and bitcoin cash and other bitcoin like services that it’s called SPV Simplified Payment Verification and that’s what we’re using to connect directly to the Bitcoin peer-to-peer network.

Voisine stated, hopefully we can get there with all that blockchains eventually as the protocols mature.

When questioned on the kind of value they are adding to the overall industry urging people to use their wallet? Voisine stated, as I mentioned, we started off using just bitcoin. But then, when the bitcoin market dominance dropped below 50 percent, we realized that we have to support what the market wants. And, XRP has always been right near the top of the list as far as market cap and the number of customers and use cases for it. And, businesses that have adopted it is growing all the time and it’s proven itself to be extremely valuable and something that the market wants. And so that’s why we’re supporting XRP.

Advertisement