DATE:  06.03.2020, 13:05:15
TITLE: Starling Bank Named Official Banking Partner of Team GB For the Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympic Games
URL:   https://www.crowdfundinsider.com/2020/03/158407-starling-bank-named-official-banking-partner-of-team-gb-for-the-tokyo-2020-summer-olympic-games/

UK-based digital banking group Starling Bank announced on Friday it has been named official banking partner for Team GB for the Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympic Games. The digital banking group reported as part of its involvement, it will also be offering each athlete a Starling retail account with £100 deposited to help them achieve their next financial goal.

Team GB is the brand of the British Olympic Association (BOA) and is the National Olympic Committee (NOC) for Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It was formed in 1905 in the House of Commons. The BOA now includes as its members the 35 National Governing Body (NGB) members of each Olympic sport, both summer and winter.

The BOA is one of 205 NOCs currently recognised by the International Olympic Committee (IOC). Their role is to lead the promotion of Olympism in accordance with the Olympic Charter, which details the philosophy, aims and traditions of the Olympic Movement.

“Team GB is entirely independently funded and commercial partnerships such as the one with Starling Bank allows the organization to fund its objective of taking athletes and sports to the summer and winter editions of the Olympic Games.”

Speaking about the collaboration, Anne Boden, CEO and Founder of Starling Bank, stated:

“We feel extremely privileged to be the official Bank of Team GB and will be sharing our excitement with customers in a number of creative ways over the next few months, which we hope will add to the feeling of community that the Olympic Games inspires. At Starling Bank, we are determined to change the banking landscape in Britain and so far, our efforts have helped us to win Best British Bank for the last two years. This winning mentality will make for a perfect partnership with Team GB at the Olympic Games.”

Helen Bierton, Chief Banking Officer at Starling Bank and former British Olympic archer, added:

“My own experience with Team GB taught me just how important the support of sponsors is when you’re trying to prepare for the Games in the right way, perform to the best of your ability and win medals. I feel very proud to now sit on the other side of the table and it’s great to be part of the Olympic Games once again.”

The 2020 Summer Olympics is set to take place from July 24th to August 9th.