DATE:  24.05.2019, 10:10:26
TITLE: 3commas Helps You Balance Your Crypto Portfolio
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/3commas-helps-you-balance-your-crypto-portfolio/

3commas Helps You Balance Your Crypto Portfolio

Hodling or liquidating your crypto assets are two extremes that are not the best investment strategies in most cases. 3commas is a platform that allows you to constantly rebalance your portfolio in order to limit losses and maximize profit.

Also read: How to Easily Find a Bitcoin Cash ATM Near You

Trade on Major Exchanges Using Bots and Target Prices

3commas is a trading bot and portfolio balancing tool which helps you make the most of your cryptocurrency trades. Using a single interface, you can connect to a number of leading digital asset exchanges and trade on them simultaneously. The platform currently supports Binance, Bittrex, Bitstamp, Bitfinex, Poloniex, and Huobi among others.

The tool has a Smart Trading terminal that lets you open multiple trades and comes with stop-loss and take-profit features. It implements trailing mechanisms that give you the opportunity to trace market changes and limit potential losses. You can set target prices for both buying and selling a digital asset as well.

The platform maintains real-time notifications that keep you updated about the state of your orders. It produces a report covering your stats from all exchanges you are trading on. Another useful feature allows you to copy the portfolios of other traders who have been successful and have seen their profits grow over time.

3commas, which is available as a mobile app and a web-based version, has multiple pricing plans. The Starter package is the best choice if you don’t need bots. It supports unlimited trading and will give you access to the Smart Trading terminal for $22 a month. The Advanced plan comes with simple bots for $37 and the Pro subscription offers full portfolio management starting from $75 a month.

A free trial of 3commas is also available. With the Junior plan you can trade on Huobi Global with any deposit size or trade on any other exchange with a deposit limited to $750. If you are looking for an alternative free platform with balancing features you can try Shrimpy.

To stay in touch with crypto markets, you can also use Bitcoin.com’s Bitcoin Markets tool which provides real-time data on the current prices and valuations of 500 cryptocurrencies. Check out our Bitcoin Charts page for charts showing price, capitalization, hashrate, and fees for BCH and BTC.

Are you using a portfolio balancing tool and what are your results? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, 3commas.

You can now purchase Bitcoin without visiting a cryptocurrency exchange. Buy BCH and BTC directly from our trusted seller and, if you need a Bitcoin wallet to securely store it, you can download one from us here.