DATE:  29.05.2019, 09:30:27
TITLE: PR: True Flip’s Pioneering Crypto Lottery Will Acquire a Cross-Platform Jackpot
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-true-flips-pioneering-crypto-lottery-will-acquire-a-cross-platform-jackpot/

PR: True Flip’s Pioneering Crypto Lottery Will Acquire a Cross-Platform Jackpot

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Massively updated, and keeping its remarkable fairness check feature, Flip’s Star will open up to True Flip’s partner network later this year. Meanwhile the game bolsters the evolving loyalty system at Trueflip.io, the company’s playground.

The next incarnation of Flip’s Star is built around its progressive Jackpot, worth 50 BTC on launch, and going cross-platform in late 2019. Given its friendly interface, the game appeals with its simplicity, uncommon for blockchain apps.

Draws take place every Sunday around 18:00 UTC, when a genuine algorithm by True Flip extracts a winning sequence from a newly-generated, thus unpredictable, Bitcoin block hash. The concept enables a one-click fairness check on the site.

With bulk discounts of up to 75%, tickets are now in stock for registered players at https://star.trueflip.io/. Flip’s Star will also grant tickets for points earned while playing on Trueflip.io.

“Flip’s Star has ensured our successful business launch, and passed 590 daily draws, bringing lots of joy to numerous lucky players. After months of refactoring, the game is back in service, massively updated in core, with more features and a whole new role in our ecosystem.” – said Konstantin Katsev, CMO of True Flip.

True Flip has also withdrawn another blockchain-utilizing lottery, Rapid to the Moon, to face similar updates. The instant drawing game will return to the company’s b2b and b2c portfolios before the end of the year.

About True Flip

True Flip is an iGaming provider that has released multiple games, with more in development. The games combine unique storylines with authentic visuals and offer varied gameplay and risk levels. The products are designed for easy business-to-business integrations and a follow-on service.

Trueflip.io is a casino brand based on deep gamification and hosting hundreds titles from top-tier providers. Targeting a wide range of players, Trueflip.io is an online amusement park backed with a growing fantasy universe to host tournaments, bonuses and promotions. Trueflip.io was also among the pioneers in bringing Blockchain technology to the mass iGaming market.

Contact Email Address

vas@trueflip.io

Supporting Link

https://star.trueflip.io/

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.