DATE:  12.06.2019, 12:30:49
TITLE: Coinbase Launches Crypto Debit Card in 6 European Countries
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/coinbase-launches-its-crypto-debit-card-in-six-european-countries/

Coinbase Launches Crypto Debit Card in 6 European Countries

Coinbase Card is being made available in six new countries across Europe. The service enables users to spend their digital funds in-store and online, supporting all crypto assets available to trade on the Coinbase platform such as bitcoin cash.

Also Read: How to Buy a Cryptocurrency Hardware Wallet With Bitcoin Cash

Coinbase Card Expands Across Europe

San Francisco-based cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase has announced that it is expanding its Visa debit card service in six new European countries. Coinbase Card, which was launched in the U.K. in April, will now be made available to customers in Spain, Germany, France, Italy, Ireland, and the Netherlands. The service enables account holders from the supported countries to spend their crypto balances in a familiar way to anyone with a debit or credit card.

The Coinbase-powered cards are issued by Paysafe Financial Services, part of the same multinational online payments group which operates Neteller and Skrill, and is regulated by the U.K’s Financial Conduct Authority. Customers of the exchange who wish to order the card need to sign up for a waitlist using the associated mobile app. Once the list is closed their balances will be spendable via an in-app virtual card while a physical card will be sent in the mail.

Crypto Cards Bring New Options for Spending BCH

The card supports all digital assets available on the Coinbase platform such as bitcoin cash (BCH) and customers can use it to pay in millions of locations where Visa is accepted, as well as to make fiat cash withdrawals from ATMs. The company has explained that when customers use their cards it instantly converts the selected crypto assets into fiat which is received by the merchant.

If you are not a Coinbase account holder or reside in an unsupported country, there are a host of other options available for using your BCH with a debit card. Hong Kong headquartered platform Crypto.com recently added support for BCH, Spain-based Bitnovo’s Bitsa card is another option and you can find additional BCH supporting cards here.

What do you think about the crypto card from Coinbase expanding across Europe? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.