DATE:  02.09.2019, 09:50:32
TITLE: Bitcoin.com's Premier Cryptocurrency Exchange Is Now Live
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-coms-premier-cryptocurrency-exchange-is-now-live/

Bitcoin.com's Premier Cryptocurrency Exchange Is Now Live

We’ve just launched our premier trading platform exchange.Bitcoin.com and registered users can access it right now. Since we announced pre-registration last month, over 10,000 accounts have signed up with our exchange and the platform is ready to provide a world-class trading experience for crypto newcomers and veterans alike.

Also Read: Check Out the New Featured Tokens on Bitcoin.com’s Markets Page

Trade Your Favorite Cryptos Today With Bitcoin.com’s New Exchange

Exchange.Bitcoin.com is live and we’re thrilled to launch a trading engine that provides fast and secure exchange in this competitive crypto environment. On the two-year anniversary of the Bitcoin Cash fork, we announced a pre-registration period so people could get a head start and participate in our rewards contest. Since then, we’ve registered over 10,000 new accounts and our exchange is ready to provide deep liquidity for the most popular digital assets today. Moreover, new accounts will get paid to trade by benefiting from negative 0.3% trading fees for the next three months. Upon logging in, you will quickly notice that exchange.Bitcoin.com was designed by traders for traders, with a user interface and design that brings you the very best in optimized crypto trading.

“When you want to trade cryptocurrency, you look for an exchange which is trustworthy and which also offers you a wide range of digital assets”, Bitcoin.com’s CEO Stefan Rust commented on the new exchange. “Bitcoin.com has been in the crypto space since the beginning and our new exchange, which supports many different coins and soon SLP tokens, will complement our existing trusted products in making money work for everyone.”



Bitcoin.com’s exchange will host a slew of trading pairs including popular cryptocurrencies like litecoin (LTC), ripple (XRP), tron (TRX), zcash (ZEC), stellar (XLM), Dash (DASH) and Eos (EOS). Exchange.Bitcoin.com will have markets denominated in base currencies like bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum (ETH), bitcoin core (BTC), and tether (USDT).

The exchange will furnish professional charts with technical indicators, optional timeframes, and order books in real-time so traders can visualize the market’s depth. Furthermore, in the near future, Bitcoin.com developers will integrate Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) token support. This means you will be able to swap some of the most popular and valuable SLP tokens out there today.

Trading Fee Rewards and a Professional-Grade Trading Engine

To mark the launch of our new exchange, you can earn rewards through negative 0.3% trading fees. With exchange.Bitcoin.com, registered users will score more bonuses the more they trade. Negative 0.3% trading fees work in the following manner:

You’ll earn negative fees up to $1,000,000 of cumulative trades for the first three months.

So, if your total cumulative trades are $1,000,000, the typical trading fees would be $2,000 and you’d earn $5,000 in rewards.



You’ll receive these rewards at the end of the three months. To find out more, please read the full promotional details in the terms and conditions.

If you haven’t signed up for our trading platform, the process is quick and easy. Simply register with exchange.Bitcoin.com and you’ll be able to instantly trade, deposit, and withdraw your favorite digital assets. Bitcoin.com’s user interface is designed for ease of use combined with a professional-grade trading platform designed to offer seamless swaps in a secure environment. Exchange.Bitcoin.com’s matching engine is faster than lightning and traders can execute trades smoothly with cryptocurrencies that have deep liquidity. Besides pleasing veteran traders, our new exchange will be one of the easiest ways for newcomers to obtain cryptocurrencies. As a trading platform that provides a superior user experience, exchange.Bitcoin.com will always be reliable and backed by our trusted brand.

“At Bitcoin.com we have a mission to bring financial freedom to the world and we’re excited to offer industry-leading rewards on an exchange you can trust to help propel the crypto space forward,” Danish Chaudhry, Managing Director of Bitcoin.com Exchange stated during the announcement.

A Better Trading Experience

Our web portal has been offering dependable crypto resources, tools, and services for years and exchange.Bitcoin.com’s principled approach to security will help you trade with confidence. Accounts will be guarded with IP whitelisting, two-factor authentication (2FA), and institutional-grade encryption. You will always be notified if there are any login attempts using your account. These safeguards make exchange.Bitcoin.com ideal for both small and large traders. At Bitcoin.com, we understand the need for high-speed order execution in the fast-paced crypto marker, and our exchange has been configured accordingly.

We’re excited to offer a world-class cryptocurrency exchange that provides an array of tools across all of exchange.Bitcoin.com’s trading pairs. Right now the trading platform is live, and if you haven’t signed up already, you can do so today and start trading cryptos immediately. With our rewards program, deep volume, and crisp user interface, we believe exchange.Bitcoin.com delivers a better trading experience and we think you’ll agree.

What do you think about the new exchange.Bitcoin.com trading platform? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image credits: Shutterstock, and Bitcoin.com.

How could our Bitcoin Block Explorer tool help you? Use the handy Bitcoin address search bar to track down transactions on both the BCH and BTC blockchain and, for even more industry insights, visit our in-depth Bitcoin Charts.