DATE:  14.04.2020, 12:56:18
TITLE: BitcoinCasino Review 2020: Get 25 Free Spins & 100% Deposit Bonus
URL:   https://blockonomi.com/bitcoincasino-review/

Bitcoin Casino has been around since 2019 and it is under the ownership of Direx N.V. Casinos. This parent company operates a whole host of other online casinos, so it has plenty of experience in the space.

Bitcoin Casino focuses on being an online casino that caters to those players who want to use cryptocurrencies as their preferred payment method and to gamble online with anonymity. The casino offering is well stacked with games from the best developers in the space. Bitcoin Casino is under the regulation of the Government of Curacao and it is always looking at ways to improve its offering and to take it to another level.

This Bitcoin Casino review looks at all of the various aspects of the offering, showcasing the pros and the cons of the offering. This will give you a proper insight as to what you can expect if you sign up for an account on the platform.

Visit BitcoinCasino

Bitcoin Casino Offering

The main focus for Bitcoin Casino is its online casino offering. There is a massive selection of different slots titles to check out. There are dozens of different leading developers that have contributed their titles on this platform. These developers include the likes of NetEnt, Play’n GO, iSoftBet, Microgaming and Pragmatic Play.

You can quickly filter through the titles depending on the developer, by popularity and by the date on which they were added to the platform. You can also use the search bar to quickly find a specific title you are looking for.

In total, there are more than three thousand titles to check out, ranging from ultra-modern video slots to older, classic style slots. All of the games can be played for free if you wish or you can put money on the line.

While the main focus for Bitcoin Casino is on its slots offering, there are also popular table games on offer. For blackjack fans, there are more than a dozen different variants, including Multi-hand Blackjack and Single Deck Blackjack.

There are also a dozen different roulette variants, with Automatic Roulette being a fan favorite. The popular casino games like baccarat, casino poker and craps are well-catered for.

There is also a decent selection of different progressive jackpot slots. Of these, some of them offer seven-figure jackpots.

There are also casual games to check out such as Heads and Tails, Minesweeper, scratch cards and virtual racing.

If you are using cryptocurrency to play games on Bitcoin Casino, there are specific games tailored to a given coin, such as Bitcoin or LiteCoin.

Overall, the online casino offering at Bitcoin Casino is all-encompassing and you will never be short of something exciting to play due to the vast selection of quality games.

Bitcoin Casino Live Dealer Offering

There is also a live dealer offering at the Bitcoin Casino. This allows players to immerse themselves into a live dealer experience that makes them feel like they are sitting at the table in the flesh, interacting with the dealer and the other players.

Most of the games on offer through this live casino are from Evolution Gaming, a leader when it comes to live dealer games. A few other live dealer studios such as Ezugi also provide games.

The streams are in HD quality and have a whole host of different features. In terms of the selection of live dealer games, you are spoilt for choice on Bitcoin Casino.

You have countless different blackjack tables depending on what variant or betting sizes you are looking to play with. Games like Immersive Blackjack and VIP Blackjack are some of the more standout options.

For roulette players, there is also a massive selection of different titles, with some of the more interesting options being Lightning Roulette and Immersive Roulette.

Naturally, you also have a variety of different baccarat options, as well as niche games such as Monopoly Live, Football Studio, Sic Bo and Casino Poker. Overall, this live casino at Bitcoin Casino is extremely well stocked with a large variety of different quality games from leading developers.

Additional Bitcoin Casino Offerings

There are other types of offerings you can try out on the Bitcoin Casino. There are regular tournaments where you can with Bitcoin and free spins as prizes.

Every time you place a bet on a given casino game, you will garner points that contribute towards your tournament standings. A certain amount of prizes are designated for the leading finishers at the end of the given period for the tournament.

There is also a quest challenge on the Bitcoin Casino that sees you play certain games and try to hit different challenges in order to unlock the likes of cashback and free spins.

Free Spins & Welcome Bonuses

At Bitcoin Casino, there is a wide-ranging welcome offer that you can avail of if you are signing up for an account for the first time.

This is mainly in the form of three different deposit bonuses.

When it comes time for you to place your first deposit either using fiat currency or cryptocurrency, you will get this first deposit matched 100%, up to a max bonus of 0.1 BTC.

Your second deposit to the Bitcoin Casino will be matched 50% up to a max bonus of 0.1 BTC and your third deposit will also be matched 50% up to a max of 0.1 BTC.

There is a minimum deposit you need to make in order to activate these deposit bonuses, namely being a minimum deposit of 0.003 BTC. As soon as you make this qualifying deposit, the bonus funds will be added to your account.

There is a wagering requirement of x40 the bonus funds before they can be withdrawn as cash. You cannot request for a withdrawal until you have hit these wagering requirements or lost all the bonus funds.

Different games will contribute differently towards the wagering requirements. For example, a lot of slots will count 100% to the requirements while table games will only contribute 5% towards these targets.

Overall, this is a solid welcome offer that allows you to get some handy bonus funds when kicking off your new account.

Regular Promotions and Loyalty Program

Bitcoin Casino has a wide range of regular promotions aimed at rewarding its existing customers. The promotions vary widely.

For example, there are weekend free spins reloaded bonuses that see you getting a certain amount of free spins when you make deposits from Friday through Sunday.

There is also a range of different cartoon characters as part of the Bitcoin Casino promotions. You can choose one depending on the offer the given character offers. For example, you can get 500 free spins if your losses in a given week or you are over a certain amount. Other characters offer you the likes of double the reward options every time you place bets, deposits bonuses and daily cashback.

Each of these offers will carry their own specific terms and conditions. This is why it is always important that no matter what the offer may be or who the operator is that you read the bonus terms before you commit to it. You will learn a lot about the nuances of a given offer when you do so.

There is also a rewards program in place at Bitcoin Casino that rewards players that are loyal to the platform. In total, seven different tiers make up this loyalty program. Every time you place a bet on a game on the Bitcoin Casino, you will earn loyalty points that will help you to move up the tiers and unlock better prizes and features.

The higher the bets you place, the more points you will earn. Some of the great perks that you can get access to through this loyalty program includes getting free spins, cashback, multipliers and special milestone rewards. Everyone will start out at the beginner tier level. The other tiers are: Fan, Expert, Master, Guru, Legend and Hero.

Overall, there is a great selection of promotions for existing players at Bitcoin Casino, as well as having a wide-ranging loyalty program that rewards players for their loyalty to the platform.

Payment Methods

With the Bitcoin Casino, you have the option to make deposits and withdrawals either using fiat currency or cryptocurrencies. As the name suggests, Bitcoin Casino is a crypto casino first and foremost.

You can conduct transactions using Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Dogecoin, Litecoin, Ethereum and Tether. All of these carry no fees levied by Bitcoin Casino and will see your funds hit your account straight away.

The minimum deposits are very small. Each of these cryptocurrencies can also be used to make a withdrawal. These withdrawals are processed instantly and no fees are charged. There are minimum withdrawals in place. For example, you need to withdraw at least 0.01 BTC in one go and a max of 0.5 BTC.

If you want to use the fiat currency options then you will be able to choose from Visa, MasterCard, Neosurf, Neteller, Skrill, Paysafecard, ecoPayz, InstaDebit, iDebit and via Interac transfer.

These are all free to use, but the third-party payment provider may levy it sown fees. For the most part, there is a minimum deposit of €10 needed. While Bitcoin Casino processes the withdrawals instantly, each of these methods will have their own times before the funds hit your account.

Conducting transactions on Bitcoin Casino couldn’t be easier, only taking a couple of steps. This process is safeguarded to ensure that your funds are safely transferred.

Security

If you are using cryptocurrencies on Bitcoin Casino, then you can play anonymously. All you need to do is sign up for an account with an email address and create a username. You do not have to comply with any anti-money laundering verification processes that is the norm with online gambling platforms that accept fiat currencies.

In terms of data privacy, Bitcoin Casino uses the best in encryption SSL technology to keep the data of customer’s safe when transferring and storing data. Anti-fraud techniques are also deployed to make sure that there is proper financial security. Player data is only used to provide the player with a gaming service.

The platform is also regulated through the government of Curacao. This ensures that all of the games on offer at the Bitcoin Casino are independent and fair. You can rest assured that all of the games on the platform are legit and fair to players.

Mobile Offering

All of the games that can be accessed via mobile on Bitcoin Casino are compatible with mobile devices. While there is no dedicated app for Android or iOS users, all of the popular web browsers available on mobile devices will be supported.

This means that you can play your favorite casino games no matter where you are thanks to the Bitcoin Casino. The games will be smooth once you have a decent internet connection, with the games being optimized for mobile devices, so you are not losing out on quality when using one of these devices.

Usability

The Bitcoin Casino is extremely easy to use and navigate. The purple and yellow color scheme give the site a unique feel. The yellow text pops out prominently, so you are not straining to read what is on the screen. Bitcoin Casino’s menu system is very clear, with only a handful of options being there to choose from.

You will also be facing some nice graphics across the site, which means that you are not just faced with a wall of text. There are plenty of characters on the site that creates an immersive experience. As soon as you launch the Bitcoin Casino site on your desktop computer, you will be faced with the site’s selection of games.

The filtering system for these games is prominent and very easy to use. You can filter the games depending on what is most popular, the newest additions, or by game type. This allows you to quickly find all of the live dealer casino games that are on offer for example.

At the bottom of the site, you will see a scrolling feed with the latest winner, how much they won and on what games they were successful. You can also search by games developer if you have a particular provider that has games you really enjoy. Finally, if you have a specific game in mind, you can use the search feature to find it.

When playing the games themselves, they will launch instantly and you will quickly be immersed in a deep experience. The smoothness of the graphics is paramount with the Bitcoin Casino and each of the games can be played for free or for money.

The live dealer games are packed full of exciting features and the streams are of an HD quality. This makes it feel like you are actually in a casino playing your favorite games. Overall, the usability of the Bitcoin Casino platform is top-notch.

Customer Support

For the most part, the main aspects of the Bitcoin Casino offering are well laid out. If you have an issue that needs resolving, there is a FAQ section that you can check out. While it only caters for a few questions, this may be enough to resolve your issue. Otherwise, there is an email submissions form on the website that you can use to send a detailed correspondence of your question or query.

There is also the option to use a live chat feature, with this being the preferred option if it is a very clearcut and simple issue. You can also get in touch via the Bitcoin Casino Twitter account if needed.

You can use the live chat feature and the email support options on a 24/7 basis, which is ideal. For the most part, the support team is knowledgeable about issues at hand and can help you quickly resolve any issues you may be experiencing.

Conclusion – Is Bitcoin Casino for you?

Bitcoin Casino ticks all of the boxes you could want from an online casino. While it is still relatively new as a platform having started in 2019, it comes from a parent company that has massive amounts of experience in the online casino space. Therefore, everything that is on offer at Bitcoin Casino has been tested and developed over the years, with its parent company clearly knowing what does and doesn’t work.

There are thousands of different slots titles on the platform to choose from. These range widely, with dozens of leading developers supplying titles. These can be played for free or for you money, whatever you prefer. The selection of other casino games is also wide-ranging, with the live dealer casino offering being very comprehensive.

You couldn’t ask for much more in terms of this side of the offering. While there are not too many additional offerings in place as of yet with the Bitcoin Casino, as time goes on, it will likely add more and more innovative aspects to its offering.

The welcome bonus package is in the form of deposit bonuses. The wagering requirements are about average for the sector. Existing players have access to exciting different promotions which change on a regular basis and there is also a seven-tiered loyalty program on offer, which is ideal for players who stick to the same online casino, earning rewards as time goes on.

There are plenty of fiat and cryptocurrency options to use at the Bitcoin Casino. By using crypto to conduct transactions, you will be able to play in relative anonymity. This is something that a lot of casino players are looking for with an online platform. The customer support team can be contacted on a 24/7 basis and the latest in encryption technology is used to keep the player accounts safe and sound. Site speed is very good and the platform is very easy on the eye and simple to navigate.

Overall, the Bitcoin Casino is one of the best crypto online casinos in the space today, ticking all the boxes.

Visit BitcoinCasino