DATE:  14.04.2020, 17:40:47
TITLE: Bitcoin Exchange Coinbase Boosts Support for Decentralized Web With Integrations for Crypto Traders and Institutional Clients
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/04/14/bitcoin-exchange-coinbase-boosts-support-for-decentralized-web-with-integrations-for-crypto-traders-and-institutional-clients/

Bitcoin exchange Coinbase continues to support strategic alliances and integrations powering the world of decentralized applications and platforms. The San Francisco-based company, which pledges to build infrastructure for an open financial system that can give people more access to products and services, is offering new options for crypto traders and investors.

Coinbase Wallet retail users can now trade cryptocurrencies through a web integration announced on Monday, while Coinbase Custody, a qualified custodian servicing institutional clients, is expanding staking options for fund managers and institutional investors who want to earn interest on their cryptocurrency holdings.

A new integration from OpenSea, a marketplace for the decentralized web, will enable Coinbase Wallet users to trade Bitcoin, Ethereum, XRP and other leading cryptocurrencies by linking from any desktop browser.

We just added WalletLink support to OpenSea, so you can seamlessly link your @CoinbaseWallet from any desktop browser to trade your favorite digital assets! pic.twitter.com/iAZAiDmkxs — OpenSea (@opensea) April 13, 2020

Coinbase launched WalletLink integration last year. It allows crypto traders to use their favorite decentralized apps (DApps) on any desktop browser. By scanning a WalletLink QR code with the Wallet app, Coinbase users can use DApps anywhere while securing their crypto funds in the mobile wallet.

Meanwhile, stakeholders of Polkadot’s DOT tokens can now earn up to 20% returns in offline Coinbase Custody vaults. Developed by Web3 Foundation, a Swiss organization, Polkadot is an ambitious project – a global network of interoperable chains that is being designed as the backbone of a fully functional and user-friendly decentralized web.

DOT staking on Coinbase Custody will be powered by Bison Trails, a blockchain “infrastructure-as-a-service” company.

Says Joe Lalloz, CEO of Bison Trails,

“For people who custody with Coinbase Custody and want to stake with secure and highly available Bison Trails validators, this integration is a game changer. DOT holders now have the unique ability to utilize both our leading blockchain infrastructure and the leading custodian of crypto assets to ensure tokens are secure and that they are earning participatory rewards.”

Coinbase Custody CEO Sam McIngvale expects staking to become a significant pillar of its business.

“[Staking] provides Coinbase Custody clients, many of whom have obligations to their investors, with a crypto-native way to participate in network rewards while also contributing to the security and governance of the ecosystem.”

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/Michael Warwick