DATE:  14.04.2020, 22:19:13
TITLE: Chinese Global Public Blockchain or DLT Evaluation Index Ranks Bitcoin in 14th Place, EOS Ranked at Top Again
URL:   https://www.crowdfundinsider.com/2020/04/160112-chinese-global-public-blockchain-or-dlt-evaluation-index-ranks-bitcoin-in-14th-place-eos-ranked-at-top-again/

The Blockchain Research Institute, which is managed by China’s Center for Information and Industry Development (CCID), has published its (17th) latest Global Public Chain Technology Evaluation Index.

The distributed ledger technology (DLT)-focused index ranks 37 of the most prominent or widely-used public blockchain networks. It evaluates crypto projects based on three different criteria, including their technological innovation and development, creative aspects, and their usefulness or potential use cases.

Each blockchain or DLT-related project’s ranking is determined based on the combined scores or ratings of these three criteria.

The latest index has ranked EOS, one of the largest platforms for developing decentralized applications (dApps), as the best performing crypto initiative. Meanwhile, Bitcoin (BTC), the flagship digital currency, has dropped down three places (from last time) and is currently ranked 14th on the rating agency’s list.

Although the overall index does not appear to have been impacted by the deadly Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak, the upgrades performed on selected public blockchain projects have slowed down significantly.

DLT-based development platforms EOS, Tron (TRX), and Ethereum (ETH) occupy the top three spots on the list (the same as last time when the list was published). But according to the core technology index, Tron and IOST came in at 2nd and 3rd, respectively, after EOS.

The agency’s applicability index has ranked Ethereum as the best project. It’s followed by Tron, Nebulas, and Xiaoyi.

Bitcoin continues to be ranked the highest in terms of creativity. Meanwhile, EOS, Ethereum and Application Chain are also ranked quite high for their creativity.

BitShares has also been ranked high as it’s considered one of the best-performing DLT initiatives. It notably moved up by 11 places and reached 13th place on the list.

Big Zero, Dash, and NashChain have also been ranked high on the list.

The overall basic technology index has dropped slightly since the last time the list was published. However, the applicability and creativity indices have seen some slight increases.

The latest (17th) list was published on April 10, 2020.