DATE:  14.04.2020, 17:53:16
TITLE: Opinion: Is Bitcoin used by criminals in the view of the State? This is excellent
URL:   https://ourbitcoinnews.com/opinion-is-bitcoin-used-by-criminals-in-the-view-of-the-state-this-is-excellent/

Let's be honest: a good part of 25 de Março (SP), Uruguaiana (RJ), Oiapoque (BH) and other “popular markets” spread across Brazil use Bitcoin and Tether. Okay, not the guy who pays R $ 600 to rent the stall, but his boss, who brings the products from China.

For these people who operate without issuing an Invoice, the only available alternatives were doleiros, in addition to oranges, the front companies. I am not sure how this market works, but if your money disappears halfway, I believe that you cannot complain through the ombudsman or regulatory agency.

Here comes Bitcoin and Tether, and there is nothing to stop these people from acquiring cryptocurrencies. Well, it didn't exist until the introduction of the 1,888 standard, which started to require intermediaries and exchanges to send information about any and all transactions to the IRS.

Do you think it ended international shipments using crypto? Never. Remember that governments do not have the capacity to ban anything, especially in a country of continental dimensions. This only encouraged the use of middlemen, equivalent to the oranges of the traditional market.

The merchants that the State considers “criminals”, because they do not yield to forced taxation, prefer the cryptos, because in addition to not being confiscated and irreversible, transactions are almost instantaneous. Furthermore, compared to money changers, these digital oranges are English lords.

There are other classes of criminals, usually corrupt civil servants and businessmen involved in the schemes, who do not use crypts to hide wealth, but continue to do it with jewelry, physical money, gold, real estate, and many other things.

Source: ABC do ABC

Source: Diário do Poder

Source: G1 Globo

If Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies came to be used to hide wealth, whatever the source, it indicates that it confers some advantage. Unstoppable? Transfers at the cost of cents? Open 24 hours a day? Security in multi-signature storage? Ease of making remittances abroad?

In fact, there is only one major disadvantage for those fleeing government clutches or similar: traceability. Despite working with pseudonyms (the addresses that represent each user's accounts), it is possible to monitor any and all movements in the blockchain.

"After observing the Bitcoin address for donations announced (by the DeepWeb dealer) by OxyMonster, agents conducted an analysis of transactions from this address and realized that 15 of the 17 exits went to addresses administered by French citizen Gal Vallerius on localbitcoins.com”- Court of California, pg. 13

There are ways to try to hide this trail, but it is a game of cat and mouse. In any case, the fact that “criminals” use crypts for international remittances and even conceal resources is an excellent sign. It means that they see qualities, which can certainly benefit you, the good citizen. Study, test, learn!