DATE:  14.04.2020, 10:51:40
TITLE: Rising user demand prompts UK’s Indacoin exchange to list Bitcoin SV
URL:   https://coingeek.com/rising-user-demand-prompts-uks-indacoin-exchange-to-list-bitcoin-sv/

Indacoin digital currency exchange has added support for Bitcoin SV, becoming the latest in a rising number of exchanges that allow users to buy BSV easily. The exchange pointed to the increasing user demand as a key factor in its listing decision. The listing will make Bitcoin available to 170 countries worldwide and make it easy to buy with over a dozen fiat currencies.

Indacoin’s listing will make it possible to buy BSV on its trading platform and through its extensive partner network. These partners include global exchange OKEx, Changelly, and Waves. It will be available for purchase via the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the Euro, and over a dozen more fiat currencies. Users can also use their Visa and Mastercard credit and debit cards to purchase BSV, the exchange revealed in a press release shared with CoinGeek.

Guilherme Jovanovic, the chief business development officer at Indacoin, expressed his optimism for the future of BSV, stating: “Enabling BSV direct purchase with the most popular payment methods on the internet—Visa & Mastercard is a big step to increase its global adoption. We are thrilled to bring Bitcoin Satoshi’s Vision to a whole new level.”

Indacoin is one of the oldest exchanges in the U.K., having launched in 2013. It currently lists over 100 digital currencies and allows the seamless and convenient purchase of digital currencies through Visa and Mastercard. It has strived to abide by the European Union’s data protection requirements and is fully GDPR compliant. Its AML system analyzes for 30 different parameters to ensure that it keeps crime away from its platform. With its fiat support being one of the widest in the industry, it allows its users to avoid the need for costly currency conversions.

Bitcoin SV has continued to claim its place as the digital currency of choice for many. Its real-time and extremely low-cost make it ideal for daily transactions.

New to Bitcoin? Check out CoinGeek’s Bitcoin for Beginners section, the ultimate resource guide to learn more about Bitcoin—as originally envisioned by Satoshi Nakamoto—and blockchain.