DATE:  14.04.2020, 06:00:01
TITLE: USD Neckline Break and Retest » BitcoinerX
URL:   https://bitcoinerx.com/price-analysis/bitcoin-price-analysis-btc-usd-neckline-break-and-retest/

Bitcoin recently formed a head and shoulders pattern on its short-term time frame and broke below the neckline to confirm that a reversal is due. Price is currently pulling back to the broken support for a retest before heading further south.

The 100 SMA is below the 200 SMA to indicate that the path of least resistance is to the downside or that the selloff is more likely to gain traction than to reverse. The 100 SMA also lines up with the broken neckline to add to its strength as resistance, and the gap between the moving averages is widening to indicate strengthening selling pressure.

In that case, bitcoin could be on track towards falling by the same height as the chart formation. Other support levels are marked by the Fibonacci extension tool, with the 50% level coinciding with the swing low around $6,600. Stronger selling pressure could take it down to the 61.8% Fib at $6,500 or the 78.6% level at $6,400. The full extension is at $6,264.19.

Stochastic has already reached the overbought zone to confirm exhaustion among buyers, and turning lower could indicate that selling pressure is picking up. However, ADX has fallen below 50 to suggest a return in consolidation. Volume has also been subdued, supporting the ongoing correction.

Bitcoin seems to be reacting to risk-off flows again these days as the cryptocurrency turned slightly higher even though commodities and stocks were mostly weak in recent trading sessions. Not even the OPEC production cut and stimulus from central banks seemed enough to shore up higher-yielding traditional assets, so demand for altcoins could once again pick up.

Besides, bitcoin is looking ahead to its halving next month and bulls might be taking advantage of market dips to buy at much better prices. Note that this event previously resulted to double the value of the coin in a few months.

Images courtesy of TradingView