DATE:  30.03.2019, 11:47:39
TITLE: Book Flights and Hotels With BCH and 6 Other Coins at Bitcoin.Travel
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/book-flights-and-hotels-with-bch-and-6-other-coins-at-bitcoin-travel/

Book Flights and Hotels With BCH and 6 Other Coins at Bitcoin.Travel

The number of travel websites accepting cryptocurrencies has been growing with the popularity of digital coins. One well-established platform, Bitcoin.travel, now supports payments in seven cryptos, including bitcoin cash (BCH).

Also read: Cryptojobs Is a Platform With 1,300 Vacancies in the Cryptocurrency Industry

Travel Anywhere, Pay in Crypto

Bitcoin.travel works with businesses from the travel industry willing to accept decentralized digital currencies for their services. On the platform, which is available in dozens of languages, users can search for flights, hotels and rentals offered by numerous partners around the world.

Starting originally with BTC payments, the travel site has expanded the number of supported cryptocurrencies to seven. Currently, it can also process incoming transactions in bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum (ETH), ethereum classic (ETC), litecoin (LTC), dash and dogecoin.

Travelers can book a desired destination, accommodation or other service using their preferred cryptocurrency. The payment is accepted on confirmation but is transferred to the provider at least 24 hours after guests check in.

Businesses are welcome to list their places and services on Bitcoin.travel free of charge, providing a description, pictures and price rates. As per the terms of service, they can request a withdrawal of the due amount a day after the arrival of their customer. Payouts are made in BTC, BCH, ETH, and LTC.

What other crypto-friendly travel websites do you know or use? Share your experience in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the mentioned companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can even lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.