DATE:  27.08.2019, 15:22:24
TITLE: Bitcoin Scam Impersonates Kiwi Celebrity to Pump Get-Rich-Quick Scheme
URL:   https://www.ccn.com/bitcoin-scam-duncan-garner/

New Zealand radio and television personality Duncan Garner rebuked fraudsters for using his likeness to lure victims into a lucrative Bitcoin investment scam.

According to Newshub, the broadcaster has been forced to publicly denounce the social media schemes, which use his image to dupe Kiwis into putting their money in cryptocurrencies.

Speaking on his morning program, The AM Show, Garner denied any involvement in the fraudulent Bitcoin investment schemes:

“Can I say now publicly that’s not me on Facebook pumping up Bitcoin and fancy cars and wealth schemes. It’s not me.”

Not a Cryptocurrency fan

Garner clarified that he had received questions from people wondering about his financial success since they had seen social media ads depicting him “pushing Bitcoin.”

He added:

“They’re not my cars, I don’t do Bitcoin – I don’t do any of that ‘coin’ I haven’t been on Facebook for a couple of years.”

The use of Duncan Garner’s image and person seems not to be restricted to Facebook, though.

On Medium, the cryptocurrency investment scheme claims to be using the “Bitcoin Evolution Duncan Garner system” to make “$13,000 in 24 hours.”

The Bitcoin trading system claims to employ a special software that is able to generate eye-popping profits with high accuracy.

The fraudulent scheme keeps changing web addresses as others are taken down. While the scam claims to offer the “Bitcoin Evolution Software” for free, a trading deposit fee of $250 is demanded.

Start with $250 and Become a Bitcoin millionaire in 60 days!

In one of the scam’s sales pages where a minimum daily profit of $1,300 is virtually guaranteed, users are assured that they can become millionaires within the first two months of joining by working for an average of 20 minutes or less.

Allegedly, the trading software has an accuracy rate of 99.4 percent.

Garner is not the only prominent New Zealander to be used by scammers to lure unsuspecting victims. Three months ago, it was reported that images of New Zealand’s richest man, Richard Graeme Hart, had also been used to promote a Bitcoin investment scam.

New Zealand’s Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern’s image has also previously been used by cryptocurrency scammers, as CCN reported last year.