DATE:  27.02.2019, 09:08:49
TITLE: Bill introduced to allow for cannabis taxes to be paid with Bitcoin, other cryptocurrency
URL:   https://www.times-standard.com/bill-introduced-to-allow-for-cannabis-taxes-to-be-paid-with-bitcoin-other-cryptocurrency

A bill introduced last week in the California Assembly would make it possible for cannabis business operators to make tax payments to the state without the hassle of carrying thousands and thousands of dollars in cash to a tax office. The proposal would allow payments to be made using Bitcoin or other types of cryptocurrency.

One of the bill’s authors, Assemblyman Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento) sees a significant need for the proposal for an industry that is blocked from accessing traditional banking methods while cannabis is still considered a Schedule I narcotic at the federal level.

“There’s a lot of call for something different than the current cash system we have now for our cannabis operators to pay their taxes, to pay their people,” said McCarty on Tuesday evening. “We’re waiting for a federal solution related to banking. This could potentially be just one option.”

The bill’s lead author, Assemblyman Phil Ting, stated it was a matter of safety, in a short prepared statement sent to the Times-Standard.

“It’s very risky for cannabis businesses to transport large amounts of cash in order to pay their tax bills,” Ting said. “Too many things can go wrong. Cryptocurrency offers a solution that’s safer and cheaper for the industry. Lowering the cost to pay taxes will also help combat black market activity and encourage more businesses to get licensed.”

McCarty stressed that it was not a requirement.

“This is not mandatory. It’s an option,” he said. “We think that people will think, ‘Hey this a more viable and a safer alternative to having 100K in cash at one time.'”

There is at least one cryptocurrency ATM in Eureka, located at the Bayshore Mall, but it’s unclear how many local businesses accept it or how widely used cryptocurrency is in Humboldt County.

Eureka City Councilman Austin Allison, who has studied cryptocurrency systems, was intrigued by the idea and saw that it could boost safety in an industry that is prevalent in Humboldt County.

But he added, it’s not widely accepted yet.

“I know cryptocurrency is still relatively unknown,” he said. “As a payment solution, speaking about the technology and not the price fluctuations, it’s rather brilliant. I think a lot of computer scientists today are really researching what bitcoin can be used for.”

He added that one benefit is the speed of the process.

“Instead of a bank transfer which takes 3-5 days, (a cryptocurrency transaction) can settle payments in literally seconds,” he said. “It’s a pretty cool idea.”

But the price fluctuations could be an issue. Cryptocurrency is volatile by nature and fluctuations in value, like commodities such as gold, can occur in hours or days.

“What they do today will not be the same as tomorrow,” said Allison. “Things like Bitcoin and payment transfers, you can buy Bitcoin worth this value then transfer that value to then be converted back to U.S. dollars within the same day. I think that’s a possible way around the fluctuations.”

McCarty, though, was not as certain about the intricacies of the proposal.

“That’s probably a risk the operator would have to take,” he said.

Ruth Schneider can be reached at 707-441-0520.