DATE:  27.02.2019, 13:50:24
TITLE: Top Business School in India to Offer Advanced Blockchain Program for Professionals
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/top-business-school-in-india-to-offer-advanced-blockchain-program-for-professionals/

Top Business School in India to Offer Advanced Blockchain Program for Professionals

A top business school in India is set to offer an advanced blockchain program for professionals. It marks the latest case of global academic institutions trying to answer the demand from students and industry for more education on crypto assets.



Also Read: University of Michigan Endowment Backs Crypto VC Fund

Indian Institute of Management Calcutta to Teach Crypto

The Indian Institute of Management Calcutta (IIM Calcutta), a top ranked public business school in Kolkata, West Bengal, plans to start a new cryptocurrency-related education program in May 2019. The Advanced Programme in Fintech and Financial Blockchain (APFFB) is meant to address the giant country’s talent shortage facing the financial technology industry. The program is designed for middle and senior management professionals in organizations that need to develop a digital finance strategy.

“A vast majority of firms in the banking and financial sector believe that the lack of adequate FinTech talent is an existential threat to their future. Our FinTech programme, designed with today’s management and finance professionals in mind, will leverage the deep research and consulting expertise of IIM Calcutta faculty and our state-of-art Finance Lab. We plan to equip and enable 2000 Fintech professionals in the next few years,” the program’s director, Prof. Indranil Bose, explained to Indian media.

Advanced Classes on Crypto Assets and Tokens

According to the school’s website, the duration of the program will be six months and it will cost students about Rs. 3,20,000 ($4,500). Course content will include classes on Data Analysis and Interpretation, Financial Markets and Products, Understanding Banks and other Financial Institutions, Foundations of Fintech, Digital Payments, All About Blockchain, Digital Disruptions in Financial Services, Crypto Assets and Tokens, Risk Management for Fintech, and Data Driven Financial Analytics.

Academic institutions all over the world have already been offering classes on cryptocurrencies and related technologies for a couple of years now. This month Shanghai’s Fudan University launched a blockchain R&D center and in January the University of California, Berkeley formed a new blockchain-focused startup accelerator program for its students.

What do you think about this business school offering a program on crypto assets? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Satoshi’s Pulse, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.