DATE:  22.05.2019, 10:28:07
TITLE: New messaging bot allows 1.5 Billion Whatsapp users to send Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH) and Litecoin (LTC)
URL:   https://blockmanity.com/news/bitcoin/new-messaging-bot-allows-1-5-billion-whatsapp-users-to-send-bitcoin-btc-ethereum-eth-and-litecoin-ltc/

People will now be able to send and receive Bitcoin and Litecoin through WhatsApp.

Zug based Digital platform Zulu Republic announced the launch of its Whatsapp messaging bot on May 19th.

The important point to note is that transferring BTC and LTC will be much easier through this app. This process will, therefore, bring the virtual cryptocurrencies closer, and people will also become familiar with it. People believe this a great step towards the adoption of cryptocurrencies.

Crypto made accessible and easy to use

Lite.Im previously launched a similar feature in telegram and facebook messenger. Users need to install the messaging bot to send Cryptos including Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC) and Zulu’s own native token ZTX on WhatsApp.

The transaction of cryptocurrencies will be SMS-based and a simple one. Whatsapp has a total of 1.5 billion users who are present in every corner of the world. People will be having good access to the payment channels as the crypto transactions become easier.

Extra beneficial features other than transferring Crypto

Other than sending and receiving of the BTC and LTC, users can also participate in their referral program which will allow them to earn cryptocurrency.

Some options are also there to allow users to choose their password along with the preferred language. Moreover, people can also set their default coin, which they will find in the same options. English and Spanish are the two default languages, but soon other languages will be introduced.

Facebook is planning for their own cryptocurrency, and so transaction of BTC via WhatsApp will raise the competition with Facebook Coin. However, it may also be a rumored but the point to note is that before knowing about the FB coin, users will be able to make the transaction via Whatsapp.

Disclaimer: Blockmanity is a news portal and does not provide any financial advice. Blockmanity's role is to inform the cryptocurrency and blockchain community about what's going on in this space. Please do your own due diligence before making any investment. Blockmanity won't be responsible for any loss of funds.

Get the latest news on Blockchain only on Blockmanity.com. Subscribe to us on Google news and do follow us on Twitter @Blockmanity

Did you like the news you just read? Please leave a feedback to help us serve you better