DATE:  14.02.2019, 18:18:28
TITLE: NASDAQ to Add Liquid Indices Tracking Value of BTC and ETH
URL:   https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/nasdaq-add-liquid-indices-tracking-value-btc-and-eth

Ring in the new bitcoin halving cycle the right way: with us!

Bitcoin Magazine presents non-stop coverage of Bitcoin’s third Halving with hours of commentary and analysis from Bitcoin 2020 speakers and some of our closest friends.

The Halving (sometimes referred to as “ the Halvening ”) is the predetermined moment when Bitcoin’s block subsidy gets cut in half. The halving of Bitcoin’s block subsidy occurs every 210,000 blocks (approximately every four years) and is a key feature of Bitcoin.

NASDAQ is planning to add new, third-party liquid indices, specifically tied to the value of bitcoin and ether.

Details were released on affiliate site nasdaqtrader.com, a domain name owned by The Nasdaq, Inc. The site claims that the two indices “are each designed to provide a real-time spot or reference rate for the price of 1 BTC and 1 ETH respectively, quoted in USD.” To determine the most accurate possible value for these indices, the relative value of the BTC index “has been calculated back to 2010” and ETH to 2014.

A common tool in financial markets, a stock index (or liquid index in the case of non-stock assets such as cryptocurrencies) helps investors describe the value of a market and its changes over time. Although the index itself is not a product that investors can purchase or have a direct relationship with, it can serve as an important neutral barometer for the value of certain assets.

It would seem as if NASDAQ is making good on their earlier intentions to expand into the crypto space. In November 2018, for example, the exchange began looking into the adoption of bitcoin futures. Additionally, NASDAQ showed further interest by partnering with VanEck to source prices on their own bitcoin index.

This move is significant for more than the simple reason that it continues to signal NASDAQ’s friendliness to the crypto space, however. These indices can be important tools for any investment trader or institution, as they provide a sober and comprehensive survey of the value of the assets in question.

Tools to track the value of bitcoin are in no short supply on the internet, of course, but the prestige and accessibility afforded by a NASDAQ tool can give financial veterans an easy point of reference to the world of crypto.