DATE:  10.02.2019, 18:40:33
TITLE: These Video Sharing Sites Pay Content Creators in Bitcoin Cash
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/these-video-sharing-sites-pay-content-creators-in-bitcoin-cash/

These Video Sharing Sites Pay Content Creators in Bitcoin Cash

On Feb. 4, Bitcoin Cash (BCH) supporters caught a sneak peek at two new video platforms dedicated to the BCH ecosystem. Porn.cash and Cinema.cash give content creators the ability to publish videos and get paid in cryptocurrency.

Also read: Indian Supreme Court Moves Crypto Hearing, Community Calls for Positive Regulations

Video Publishers and Content Creators Get Paid in BCH at Cinema Cash

There’s a new BCH-fueled video service called Cinema.cash that allows users to upload content and be rewarded for posts. There are two types of revenue streams that content creators can utilize in order to get paid in crypto – tips and pay-per-view sessions. Tipping is set to default for all videos, and with pay-per-view, users have to pay beforehand to watch the content. Registering is fairly straightforward as users don’t need to use an email or verify their identity.

Only a username and password is required to sign up to both websites. Cinema Cash has a wide array of videos including subjects like action, documentary, comedy, cryptocurrencies, and science fiction. The creators also designed a fundraising section so users can publish videos in order to raise some money for an effort or someone in need. Porn.cash is the same exact setup as Cinema Cash but obviously the content is more adult themed.

While taking a gander at the websites, visitors can see that both platforms have a decent amount of videos so far. Users can publish Youtube videos alongside Twitch TV and Vimeo movies as well. The Cinema Cash team says that with the ease of publishing content, creators can have their own stage. In addition to using BCH, the creators of the websites plan to encourage tipping with a token called “Cash.”

“To incentivize tipping, we are also giving away chances to win Cash tokens for every tipping done,” explains the application developer. “Cash tokens holders are all entitled to a share of the platform profits based on the percentage of Cash tokens they hold — Essentially, we are giving the platform away to the Bitcoin Cash community.”

Tipping and Pay-Per-View

In the member’s options section users can see a few tabs that allow them to interact with the site’s content. For instance, there’s an “upload video” tab which allows you to link a video to the website with some characterization. There are two payment types to choose from when uploading content, “free” and “pay-per-view.” From here the user can add a video title, description, video URL, a screenshot, categories, and keywords. The application has a native wallet that only allows withdrawals. When tipping or paying for a movie, the platform will deploy a BCH address that can be copied and a QR code that can be scanned. The withdrawal section will display earnings statistics, and balances for both BCH and Cash tokens.

Overall the application has a decent amount of videos for such a new platform. Being basically a clone of Cinema Cash, the creator’s other project, Porn Cash, also has a lot of video material. The adult site has a whole lot more movies where members have to pay to watch and it’s likely the pay-per-view model performs better than on the ordinary site. On Reddit, BCH fans seem to be pleased with the two new video sites. The platform developer says there should be a more official announcement concerning the project development. Users should also note that both Cinema Cash and Porn Cash are currently in beta.

What do you think about the new bitcoin cash fueled video sites? Let us know in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the mentioned companies or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com and the author are not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article. Neither Bitcoin.com nor the author is responsible for any losses, mistakes, skipped steps or security measures not taken, as the ultimate decision-making process to do any of these things is solely the reader’s responsibility. This editorial is for informational purposes only.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Cinema.cash, and Porn.cash.

Have you seen our widget service? It allows anyone to embed informative Bitcoin.com widgets on their website. They’re pretty cool, and you can customize by size and color. The widgets include price-only, price and graph, price and news, and forum threads. There’s also a widget dedicated to our mining pool, displaying our hash power.