DATE:  24.09.2019, 05:39:38
TITLE: Bitcoin Daily: NYSE Owner Contracts; SIX Pilot
URL:   https://www.pymnts.com/blockchain/bitcoin/2019/bitcoin-daily-owner-nyse-launches-bitcoin-futures-contracts-six-swiss-stock-exchange-debuts-pilot-crypto-platform/

Intercontinental Exchange, the owner of the New York Stock Exchange, announced it has launched its own bitcoin futures contracts.

The first trade was executed on Sunday (Sept 22), but did not have much of a reaction in spot markets, according to CNBC. In fact, bitcoin’s price increased just 0.5 percent higher to about $9,950.

In other news, Swiss stock exchange SIX has launched a pilot version of its exchange and central securities depository (CSD) for digital assets.

Launched under its digital assets subsidiary SIX Digital Exchange (SDX), the platform will expand as it approaches its full launch at the end of next year, according to an announcement emailed to CoinDesk. Phase two should be ready in the “coming months,” and will use feedback from this first phase.

“The launch of this prototype is a major milestone in creating a credible digital infrastructure for moving our industry forward. We are now one step closer to demonstrating the viability of our vision for the financial markets of the future and, ultimately, for the way people and businesses access capital,” said Thomas Zeeb, chairman of SDX and member SIX’s executive board.

Cisco Systems has chosen SingularityNET’s blockchain-based platform to host its decentralized AGI project.

“The scale of the AGI deployments needed by a partner like Cisco is going to be tremendous, and we are working hard to make sure our AGI tools and our blockchain-based platform is up to the task,” Dr. Ben Goertzel, SingularityNET CEO, said, according to Coin Desk. He added that the technology is “expected to provide tremendous commercial benefit to whomever develops it.”

“This benefit may initially take the form of a generation of ‘Narrow AGI’ systems that infuse general intelligence into products in specific vertical markets like, say, advertising, medical research, computer networking or financial analytic,” he said.

And Infosys Finacle announced it has partnered with R3 on a global blockchain trial, which was completed in under five weeks.

Eighteen banking groups joined the test network of Finacle Trade Connect, which is a blockchain based trade finance application, available on R3’s Corda platform.

“Infosys Finacle’s successful completion of this global blockchain trial is a clear demonstration of the efficiencies blockchain can bring to various financial markets, and trade finance is no exception to that. As the promise of the technology continues to gather pace through trails such as this one, we are moving closer to bringing blockchain to the fore as a viable option to transform financial markets — in trade finance and beyond,” David E. Rutter, CEO at R3, said in a press release.