DATE:  16.11.2019, 14:00:18
TITLE: The real story behind Bitcoin Gold from one of its creators
URL:   https://finance.yahoo.com/news/real-story-behind-bitcoin-gold-140018380.html

With a beaming smile on his face, Bitcoin Gold co-creator Alejandro Regojo came bounding over to my table.

I’ll admit to being curious when it comes to Bitcoin Gold. Not as highly publicised as Bitcoin Cash or Bitcoin SV, my knowledge was somewhat limited. I knew that it was one of the more successful Bitcoin forks, but beyond that, not much more.

Luckily, it’s Alejandro’s job to inform people all about BTG. And there’s nothing that he’s as passionate about as pushing its widespread adoption.

BTG is 2! First BTG block, 491407, mined on Nov 12, 2017 (forking from Bitcoin block 491406, mined October 23, 2017.) Still ASIC-resistant! Thanks to everyone in our global Community! Go $BTG !https://t.co/SYgRh1yqhF#Bitcoin #Anniversary #Adoption #Cryptocurrency pic.twitter.com/zbha13ZvKd — Bitcoin Gold [BTG] (@bitcoingold) November 14, 2019





As you can probably tell by the name, Alejandro is Spanish. His English is impeccable, but he tells me he learnt more about the language during his year “studying Chinese” in China than the numerous trips his parents sent him on to the UK.

“I had to communicate with my colleagues,” he says, “and they were all speaking English.”

With a background in internet companies and a keen interest in finance, Alejandro was studying economics when he first found out about Bitcoin in 2015. He then immediately quit and threw himself “100% into Bitcoin”.

He knew right away that he didn’t want to study how fiat worked anymore because there was “no reason” to. “I understood that there was something newer and better,” he says.

Throwing himself 100% into Bitcoin

Despite his parents’ reaction, it was “one of the best ideas” he has ever had. He’d already racked up enough study hours and even had a couple of successful companies going.

“I realised that Bitcoin was my thing because it’s internet and at the same time it’s money, so I entered first as a researcher and then I started trading.”

Alejandro explains that for a person like himself with a background in economics and risk evaluation, it was a “good entry point to understanding the market from the inside”.

The journey from Bitcoin to Bitcoin Gold

If Alejandro was so captivated by Bitcoin, how did he end up being part of a team of developers who decided to fork it? The simple answer? To “fight the Bitmain monopoly”.

He says, “At the beginning of 2017, there were a lot of issues in Bitcoin, a lot of problems, and people talking about forks in Bitcoin. That’s when I began to get involved with the Bitcoin Gold community.”

The community sprung up united by its passion for finding what Alejandro describes as “the best way” to implement Satoshi Nakamoto’s vision of Bitcoin in the whitepaper.

Anti-ASIC mining developers began to meet up in online forums to discuss how to fight the uncheckable power of Bitmain and also “fight against people who were trying to monopolise some points of Bitcoin”.

@bitcoingold is not only people, is a Community. pic.twitter.com/axrOwszo9n — J Alejandro Regojo (@AlejandroRegojo) December 27, 2017





Bitcoin Gold, he explains, started as an experiment, and ended up being developed as a successful project.

“Our idea was to create the most ASIC-resistant version of Bitcoin,” he says, “so at the time we considered that the perfect thing to experiment was to make an algorithm that could take out Bitmain from the mining.” That’s when the team came up with Equihash.

They changed the PoW algorithm from SHA-256 to Equihash, making it impossible for ASIC mining equipment to mine on the Bitcoin Gold blockchain. Instead, Equihash runs on commodity graphics cards, or GPUs, which are easily available to the public.

“It completely prevents any ASICs because it needs more RAM. ASICs are not good with this so they are completely left out.”

Bitcoin Gold was extremely successful, and “hit the market hard because enough people understood the importance of what we were doing – we were a top-five market cap coin”.

But unfortunately, the Bitcoin fork became plagued with problems.

The (many) issues Bitcoin Gold had to face

In fact, even during the initial fork (it had to fork again the next year when Bitmain created new equipment that could mine on Bitcoin Gold), the Bitcoin Gold website went down for around four hours.

Massive DDoS attack on our cloud site. 10M requests per minute. We are working with the providers to ban all the IPs. We will be up soon! — Bitcoin Gold [BTG] (@bitcoingold) October 24, 2017

Story continues