DATE:  02.02.2019, 13:57:15
TITLE: Australia – Top Regulators Building Pro-Regulation Crypto Industry, Registering 246 Bitcoin Exchange
URL:   https://coingape.com/australia-top-regulators-registering-246-bitcoin-exchange/

Australia’s financial authority, AUSTRAC (The Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis) is forming pro-regulations for the crypto industry.

Advertisement

Australia Encourages Pro-Regulations

The recent report indicates that the agency has officially registered 246 cryptocurrency exchanges. Accordingly, crypto trading platforms must get registered with AUSTRAC to provide crypto trading services within the country.

This move expects to intensify the industry credibility and meantime combating the fraud revolving around crypto business. The regulators will oversee the background of exchanges to ensure that it should be free from the future risk of money laundering and other crimes unlike. Adrian Przezlozny who is the head of Australia’s crypto exchange, Independent reserve says that

“We always had the feeling that regulation is important to bring cryptocurrency into the mainstream,”

Per the source, AUSTRAC has already investigated 11 crypto exchanges and also rejected registration for 2 exchanges. However, the reason behind rejection is still out of sight as the regulators deny on clarifying anything. Exchange platforms must be fully compliant with AUSTRAC rules until early October – also they’re expected to report suspicious transactions within the same time.

AUSTRAC spokesperson told the sources;

Advertisement

“We will not hesitate to take strong enforcement action where significant or wilful non-compliance is identified,”

Do you think the initiation brings crypto friendly environment? share your opinion with us.

Summary Article Name Australia - Top Regulators Building Pro-Regulation Crypto Industry, Registering 246 Bitcoin Exchange Description Australia’s financial authority, AUSTRAC (The Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis) is forming pro-regulations for the crypto industry. Author Tabassum Publisher Name Coingape Publisher Logo

Binance Futures Limited Offer: Use Use this link to register & get 10% discount on fees.



Disclaimer The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Coingape is committed to following the highest standards of journalism, and therefore, it abides by a strict editorial policy . While CoinGape takes all the measures to ensure that the facts presented in its news articles are accurate.The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Instant loans by local bank transfer using your crypto as collateral