DATE:  02.02.2019, 09:57:30
TITLE: Bitcoin Cash [BCH] News: Bitcoin Cash to become physical notes
URL:   https://blockmanity.com/news/bitcoin-cash-bch-news-bitcoin-cash-to-become-physical-notes/

Melbourne based startup, Global Notes – the people behind the website Bitcoincashnotes.com have introduced a collectible bitcoin cash bearer bond notes that are loaded with a certain amount of BCH.

The creators believe in Satoshi Nakamoto’s vision for a peer-to-peer electronic cash system and think BCH with its low fees can make this Bitcoin cash product economically viable. They believe these collectibles are a great way to spread adoption and can be used as gift items.

As per the website, version 0.2.0 of the 1mBCH (0.001 BCH) Bitcoin Cash Note has been released.

“[BCH notes] are preloaded paper wallets that look and feel like real money — Each note contains Bitcoin Cash equal to its face value. A private key has been encapsulated in each note underneath a tamper-evident seal, giving you access to the bitcoin cash at any time.”

The bills look similar to the U.S. dollar with just Dorian Nakamoto, the face of Bitcoin as the centerfold. The note comes with a printed public key and private key so the bearer can sweep the funds at any time. There is also additional information that verifies the bill onchain. Under the public key QR code, it says 1mBCH and version 0.1.0 alongside the bill’s print number.

“The 4 digit code printed at the top left-hand corner of the tamper-evident seal provides enhanced security against covering a tampered seal with a new seal. The 4 digit code equals the last 4 digits of the Bitcoin Cash address.”

“In the long term, we would love our notes to transform into something that provides economic freedom to the unbanked 3 billion people in the world who are constantly being ravaged by inflation — But for now, bitcoin cash notes are just a bit of fun for us regular banked people.”

The startup currently won’t ship to countries like Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, China, Ecuador, Egypt, Iceland, and Iraq. Also, you can purchase the BCH bills with only bitcoin cash. Here are more details about this bill.

Blockmanity’s Take

Pretty neat. Could be a pretty good collectible item for bitcoin cash supporters. As for worldwide applications, don’t really see much use of this.

Disclaimer: Blockmanity is a news portal and does not provide any financial advice. Blockmanity's role is to inform the cryptocurrency and blockchain community about what's going on in this space. Please do your own due diligence before making any investment. Blockmanity won't be responsible for any loss of funds.

Get the latest news on Blockchain only on Blockmanity.com. Subscribe to us on Google news and do follow us on Twitter @Blockmanity

Did you like the news you just read? Please leave a feedback to help us serve you better