DATE:  02.02.2019, 17:56:41
TITLE: Properties Are Still Being Sold for Cryptocurrency Despite the Bear Market
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/properties-are-still-being-sold-for-cryptocurrency-despite-the-bear-market/

Properties Are Still Being Sold for Cryptocurrency Despite the Bear Market

Bitcoin and many other digital assets have lost more than 80 percent of their fiat value since 2017. Despite this, the trend for people selling homes for cryptocurrency continues to thrive amidst one of the longest bear markets in crypto history.

Also read: Canadian Exchange Insolvent After CEO Dies With Keys to $145M of Cryptocurrency

The Real Estate and Crypto Asset Trend Continues in 2019

It’s been one of the longest bear markets ever in bitcoin land, but digital asset proponents are trucking along with relentless faith hoping that the lows will eventually come to an end. Because of the price drop, the entire cryptocurrency economy has been affected as blockchain companies have suffered layoffs and cryptocurrency-related internet searches have dropped significantly. Not all crypto trends have been downwards however: people are still interested in crypto-focused conferences and over-the-counter (OTC) bitcoin volumes have been climbing. Another trend that’s managed to survive is the real estate market and its newfound relationship with cryptocurrencies. Back in late 2017, when crypto assets were extremely valuable, people were selling real estate for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. And now, even after the 80+ percent drop in value, individuals and real estate firms are still putting homes on the market for digital currencies.

Home Owners in Australia Are Still Selling for Cryptocurrencies

On Jan. 30, a regional news outlet reported how property in Australia is still being sold for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. For instance, Real Estate agency Ray White is selling a luxurious three-bathroom home in Surfers Paradise for $580,000 and the owner is willing to accept payment in BTC. In a suburb of Darwin, an apartment is selling for roughly 126 BTC or $600,000. The private listing says “We are happy to accept Bitcoin or any other major cryptocurrency instead of Australian dollars for this property.” Not only are homes selling for cryptocurrencies in Australia but people can purchase parcels of land with digital assets as well. Another listing located in the town of Helidon, Queensland has the homeowner seeking the equivalent of $86,000 paid in BTC. “You can purchase this property entirely using bitcoins,” the listing details.

There Are People Listing Luxury Apartments, Estates and More for Digital Assets in 2019

Australia isn’t the only region seeing this trend, as real estate listings being sold for cryptocurrencies has become a mainstay over the last two years. For instance, in San Fransisco, according to a Craigslist ad, a mid-century hillside estate can be purchased for $3.3 million. “The seller may consider offers including consideration paid in bitcoin or other forms of cryptocurrency,” explains the advertisement.

In Hughson California, you can buy a $2.3 million 5,138 sq ft luxury cherry estate with four bedrooms. The property also includes 14 acres of land and was designed by Conrad Sanchez. For 70 BTC, a property in the beautiful region of Playa Colorado can be purchased that includes its own private beach club and restaurant membership. For $900,000 in digital currencies, there’s a 3-bedroom, 1,800 sq ft Key West estate for sale located on Saddlebunch Key.

Lots of Parcels and Acreage for Sale

Homes and apartments are not the only types of properties being listed for cryptocurrencies as there are lots of plots of land for sale too. You can use BTC, ETH, or LTC to purchase 41 hectares of land by the Baltic Sea which consists of eight interconnected parcels.

In Albrightsville, Pennsylvania, someone could snatch up a vacant Poconos lot and acquire a ½ acre of this popular vacation land for digital currencies. There are almost 12 acres of land for sale that borders Boise in the region of Sweet, Idaho and the owner is interested in a digital currency trade. Or if you want a whole bunch of acreage, for $475,000 in cryptos you can purchase a 300-acre farm with water in Bouse, Arizona.

It seems that people are still finding value in listing luxury homes, apartments and lots of acreage in exchange for cryptocurrencies. The lower cryptocurrency values may entice owners selling properties because essentially they can gather a lot more coins. So far, in 2019, there are still plenty of sellers who are attracted to this form of payment and are happy to accept cryptocurrencies instead of fiat in exchange for property.

What do you think about the continued trend of people listing homes and land in exchange for cryptocurrencies? Why do you think this trend has been persistent? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Bitcoin.com does not endorse these real estate products/services. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the mentioned listings, advertisements, companies or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com and the author are not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article. This editorial is for informational purposes only.

Image credits: Shutterstock, Ray White Real Estate, and Craigslist.

Express yourself freely at Bitcoin.com’s user forums. We don’t censor on political grounds. Check forum.Bitcoin.com