DATE:  22.07.2019, 09:30:48
TITLE: PR: Folgory Launches Mobile App and Regulated Crypto Exchange
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-folgory-launches-mobile-app-and-regulated-crypto-exchange/

PR: Folgory Launches Mobile App and Regulated Crypto Exchange

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Crypto market trading pioneers Folgory launch fully integrated app and regulated trading exchange

Tallinn, Estonia, 22nd July 2019, Folgory, the fully integrated app and trading exchange launches to bring a range of services to crypto users.

The intellectual and logistical demands of trading crypto currency have hitherto been tricky at best, complex at worst. Folgory has created an easy to integrate and manage solution designed for the crypto trader looking for speed, ease of use and the highest levels of security.

A simple and secure mobile app allows crypto traders to manage all of their digital assets in one place. The buying and selling of crypto currency then becomes an act of simplicity with the easy to use technology and interface allowing traders to concentrate on their main focus – trading.

One key element that has concerned traders historically is that of exchange liquidity, i.e. the exchange’s ability to cover trades with liquid assets. This is an area where Folgory have placed supreme importance, giving traders confidence and peace of mind.

The Folgory app interface is an easy to use dashboard that offers real time trading figures, trends and deposits without the need for constant refresh. Again, allowing the trader critical, up to date information. Instant, real time trading with immediate access to send and receive funds securely through double authentication, Folgory are set to become industry leaders in crypto trading platforms.

With full 24/7 technical support, Folgory expect their simple to use and highly secure app and exchange to rapidly become the de-facto solution for crypto traders.

Contact Email Address

marianna@hashfort.net

Supporting Link

https://folgory.com

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.