DATE:  12.04.2019, 19:13:59
TITLE: ALA Celebrates One Year of Providing the Ultimate Mentorship Experience
URL:   https://technext.ng/2019/04/12/ala-celebrates-one-year-of-providing-ultimate-mentorship-experience-to-business-leaders-and-entrepreneurs/

Leading business and entrepreneurship mentorship platform in Nigeria, the Ausso Leadership Academy (ALA) is celebrating one year of providing the ultimate mentorship experience to entrepreneurs and business leaders across a diverse business spectrum in Africa.

The landmark celebration was marked with an Anniversary celebration which coincided with the graduation ceremony of its sixth business and entrepreneurship masterclass cohort.

Speaking at the occasion, the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Ausso Leadership Academy, Austin Okere noted that the strides of the academy in just one year is a validation of its founding purpose, which is to “mentor entrepreneurs to institutionalize and scale their businesses geometrically”.

He also thanked all stakeholders for their commitment and support.

According to him, “one year from inception, ALA has remained true to its purpose of mentoring entrepreneurs that will, in turn, become the drivers of sustainable economic growth, creating an oasis of outstanding businesses in Africa. So far, we have enjoyed ever-increasing recognition and endorsement by key stakeholders.

– If you have character, cash will not change you. If you have enough, sharing will not be a problem. The definition of enough is based on your character.

– Your circumstances should not stop you from delivering quality service

– @ALIBABAGCFR #ALA #ALAMasterclass pic.twitter.com/ElbAL6zKUT — austin okere (@austin_okere) April 8, 2019

“This is highlighted by the visits of the Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investments, Dr. Okey Enelamah, Former Minister of Communications and Technology, Dr Omoobola Johnson, Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mrs Aishah Ahmad, the CEO of the various exchanges, Mr Oscar Onyema (Nigerian Stock Exchange), Mr Bola Onadele (FMDQ) and Mr Bola Ajomale (NASD), the DG of the National Pension Commission, Muhammad K. Ahmad (OON), the Deputy British High Commissioner in Nigeria, Laure Beaufils, and many other notable champions.”

“Indeed, we are grateful to everyone that had committed themselves to this initiative. Without you, we would not have come this far. And, we count on you in our quest to continue to mentor the giants of today and tomorrow”, he concluded.

In his testimonial, Mr Udukheli Izebuno, a Business Gladiator of the Academy said “every aspect of this institution has been carefully designed for the next generation of people that will do great things. I think #ALA is properly designed and properly targeted to attract these set of entrepreneurs.”

In the past year, the Ausso Leadership Academy has Mentored about 102 Entrepreneurs, representing 10 major corporates from diverse industry sectors and about 44 medium enterprises. The academy has hosted 47 Champions of Business and Entrepreneurship to share their experiences and impacted about 400 Guest Delegates with its open Sessions; in line with her commitment to building a strong Community of Nigerian Business Leaders and Entrepreneurs.

Using its online content platform, #BusinessInsightsWithAO, ALA has produced over 50 video episodes on salient business and leadership issues to an audience of over 77,000 viewers.

As part of its efforts to influence the society for the better, the ALA anniversary cohort has launched #Take5toGiveback, an initiative designed to impact grassroots government decision makers through participation in the ALA leadership programmes.

Hence, they will be empowered to make growth enabling regulations and improve the lives of their communities.

If you’d like to get featured on our Entrepreneur Spotlight, click here to share your startup story with us. SUBSCRIBE Get latest Technology news, reviews, business-related content with a deliberate emphasis on the African narrative and insightful analysis in Nigeria – straight to your inbox.

Comments