DATE:  12.04.2019, 10:52:25
TITLE: Exchangewar Lets You Compare Crypto Trading Platforms
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/exchangewar-lets-you-compare-crypto-trading-platforms/

Exchangewar Lets You Compare Crypto Trading Platforms

Finding the cryptocurrency exchange with the best options in your region in terms of prices, fees and features, can be a time-consuming endeavor. Exchangewar.info is a website that can save you some of that effort.

Also read: Simple Bitcoin Widget Gives You Crypto Prices on the Go

Select Best Exchanges by Indicators and Features

Exchangewar allows users to compare 144 digital asset trading platforms from 48 countries by various features and indicators. It provides information about the region each exchange operates from, its total daily trading volume calculated in BTC, and a link to its website.

The online platform shares data about the fees applied by the exchanges and the accepted fiat and stablecoin payments. There’s also information about the number of supported trading pairs as well as the top pairs by volume. Users are able to list the platforms according to different indicators and the data is updated every 10 minutes.

A separate column contains details about the features offered by the trading platforms such as futures and options contracts, leverage, margin trading, P2P lending, escrow, stop orders, limits, loyalty programs and others. Traders can also learn about signup promotions and read the latest news concerning a particular exchange.

Exchangewar.info has a useful filtering functionality that allows users to select exchanges offering a particular trading pair. It can display all exchanges where you can buy or sell a given cryptocurrency such as BCH, BTC or ETH for U.S. dollars, for example.

Meanwhile, if you want to stay informed about cryptocurrency prices, Bitcoin Markets is a market capitalization aggregator developed by Bitcoin.com. The portal shows market valuations, current prices, hourly, daily and weekly percentages, charts, and more, providing traders with real-time data about their favorite coins.

What other platforms for crypto traders do you regularly use? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can even lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.