DATE:  12.04.2019, 15:58:22
TITLE: How to Buy Pain Relief Drugs off the Darknet With Bitcoin
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/how-to-buy-pain-relief-drugs-off-the-darknet-with-bitcoin/

How to Buy Pain Relief Drugs off the Darknet With Bitcoin

Darknet marketplaces (DNMs) provide a wide range of services beyond those commonly portrayed by the media. One of these is the provision of pain relief drugs for the terminally ill. In this guide, we run through the process for obtaining CBD, a cannabis oil compound that provides comfort to people suffering from chronic pain, anxiety, and mood disorders.

Also read: Darknet Buyers Flock to Wall Street as Dream Winds Down

The Darknet Is a Refuge for the Desperate and the Downtrodden

In 2016, a close friend of mine was diagnosed with terminal cancer. As part of her therapy, she began self-medicating cannabidiol (CBD), derived from the cannabis plant. It helped her to relax and to sleep better. Every time she purchased CBD capsules, she was technically breaking the law: in Britain, as in many countries, cannabis products are illegal. Last year, an outcry over a seven-year-old boy denied the right to use CBD to control his epilepsy seizures prompted the government to soften its stance, but the oil still remains all but impossible to obtain for pain relief purposes – only doctors can prescribe it in extremely narrow circumstances. Even in the U.S., companies such as Stripe refuse to process payments for CBD.

On October 31, my friend lost her struggle with cancer. She was 29. The following day, the law permitting the prescription of CBD came into effect in the U.K. For anyone who finds themselves in similar circumstances to my friend, CBD oil can help to make the pain manageable as well as minimizing discomfort. If you’re not fortunate enough to know a cannabis grower, the darknet is your best bet for getting hold of the stuff. Here’s how you might go about doing that.

How to Buy CBD on the Darknet

Like many bitcoiners, I’ve bought an array of wares on the darknet over the years, but until recently, I’d never purchased CBD. With the normally reliable Dream market in the process of shutting down, I elected to make my purchase from Wall Street. Its Tor address can be found on sites like Deepdotweb and Darkwebnews. Because I already use the Brave browser, I don’t even need to download Tor to pay a visit to Wall Street: a Tor browsing tab can be opened directly within Brave.

From there, I log in to Wall Street and browse the drug listings. (If you don’t have an account, it only takes a couple of minutes to set one up. Be sure to choose a unique username and password). Wall Street accepts bitcoin core and monero for payment. In this case, I’ll be using the former since I already have some BTC to hand on a mobile wallet.

Since I’m based in the U.K., I’d prefer to order from a seller in this country for quickness and because domestic mail attracts less suspicion. While CBD oil is at the lower end of the scale when it comes to classified drugs, it’s still illegal to purchase here. I filter my search results for U.K. sellers only, and soon I’ve found my CBD supplier. A note of caution before ordering: always check the seller’s most recent feedback. The one I’ve selected looks legit, but as a glance at the feedback for other sellers shows, there are some lowlifes out there:

The Purchasing Process

One of the cool things about Wall Street is that funds don’t have to be deposited into your account on the DNM – instead they go directly from your personal wallet to the seller’s, with multisig preventing the funds from being released until you’ve marked the order complete. This provision also protects customer funds in the event of the market committing an exit scam.

The CBD listing describes “30 x 35mg THC/CBD oil capsules” and promises to be the cleanest and purest product on the market. “Capsules are produced from concentrate extremely high in DELTA-9 THC (58.8%) This is sky high for Delta-9,” reads the listing. “We recommend 1 capsule to be taken at a time.” Using PGP, I encrypt my delivery address and sign the message. This means that only the seller will be able to decode our correspondence; even if the marketplace is compromised, law enforcement will have no means of descrambling the data. Deepdotweb has a good tutorial on PGP; once you’ve gotten to grips with it, it only takes a few seconds to encrypt and decrypt messages, and is a measure that’s well worth taking.

Within minutes of submitting my order, Wall Street has generated a unique BTC address for the transaction, which I complete using the Bitcoin.com Wallet.

15 minutes after that and the payment is marked as received. Two days after that, a padded envelope lands on the doormat. Inside a smell-proof and scan-resistant silver bag is a ziplock pouch containing 30 THC/CBD capsules. While I must now undo my anonymity by writing an article about the purchase, if I were a cancer suffer, I could now set about self-medicating in peace and quiet. Cryptography and cryptocurrency are a beautiful thing.

What are your thoughts on using the darknet to purchase medicinal products that cannot be obtained easily by prescription? Let us know in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Disclaimer: Bitcoin.com does not endorse this product/service. Review editorials are intended for informational purposes only. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the mentioned company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com or the author is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.