DATE:  03.06.2019, 13:34:26
TITLE: Get Detailed Statistics About Your Favorite Crypto From Bitinfocharts
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/get-detailed-statistics-about-your-favorite-crypto-from-bitinfocharts/

Get Detailed Statistics About Your Favorite Crypto From Bitinfocharts

Having access to reliable and detailed statistical data should be a priority for any cryptocurrency trader and investor. Bitinfocharts is a free and rich source of cryptocurrency statistics that offers you the opportunity to compare dozens of digital coins by numerous indicators.

Also read: Stay in Touch With Changing Markets Using the Crypto Trends App

Platform Tracks Multiple Indicators for Major Coins

Bitinfocharts lets you track the prices of leading cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin cash (BCH). The online platform has a dedicated page with detailed charts for the top 7 digital coins by important indicators such as market capitalization and transaction volume.

The website also maintains two statistical tables, one of which is exploring the correlation between various currencies. The other table shows how prices correlate to different factors like mining profitability and hashrate, for example.

The Bitinfocharts.com homepage is customizable and you can select the digital assets you’d like to follow. The platform displays information about each cryptocurrency you’ve highlighted. It pulls prices from different sources, including P2P markets, and calculates an average price.

The column of each crypto shows its market cap in U.S. dollars, the daily number of transactions and their hourly average, the average and median transaction value. You’ll also be able to find out how much bitcoin cash has been sent in the last 24 hours, in BCH and USD.

Bitinfocharts examines many other indicators, including mining difficulty, profitability and hashrate. You’ll also be able to find a list of the top 100 richest bitcoin cash addresses, the number of active addresses in a 24-hour period and the 100 largest transactions. There’s a block explorer as well.

Another source of reliable statistical data for bitcoin cash (BCH) and bitcoin core (BTC) is the Bitcoin Charts page developed by Bitcoin.com. It provides you with even more industry insights and useful information about the BCH market, its activity, as well as other economic indicators and technical details such as inflation rate and output volume.

What source of cryptocurrency statistics do you use? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Bitinfocharts.

Do you want to dig deeper into Bitcoin? Explore past and present cryptocurrency prices through our Bitcoin Markets tool and head to our Blockchain Explorer to view specific transactions, addresses, and blocks.