DATE:  03.06.2019, 17:30:53
TITLE: PR: TRCE - Crypto Exchange Set To Launch In Q4 2019
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-trce-crypto-exchange-set-to-launch-in-q4-2019/

PR: TRCE - Crypto Exchange Set To Launch In Q4 2019

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

The Real Cryptocurrency Exchange (TRCE) is a Seychelles Cryptocurrency company headquartered in Buenos Aires, Argentina (2019) with plans to open offices in UK (2020) and Singapore (2021). The mission at TRCE is to reduce the access gap in the Cryptocurrency Market worldwide, primarily focusing on emerging markets.

Unlike most exchanges where users are regularly limited in their fiat options, TRCE will enable a highly flexible fiat onramp for its users around the world. This will allow seamless fiat-crypto transactions in their domestic currencies, providing easy access and mainstream adoption where the use-case is globally most important.

Specifically, trading support in major emerging market fiat currencies such as the Argentine Peso, Brazilian Real, Peruvian Sol, Colombian Peso, Venezuelan Bolivar, Mexican Peso, Turkish Lira, Polish Zloty, Russian Ruble, Ukrainian Hryvnia, Vietnamese Dong, Indonesian Rupiah, Nigerian Naira, South African Rand, as well as the USD and Euro in Q4 of 2019. This brings its fiat options to a staggering 16 currencies in its first operational year alone. By 2020, TRCE plans to expand its platform across Korea, UK, Czech Republic, Malaysia, Thailand, Kenya and Ghana.

Accepting fiat in these underrepresented currencies signifies its commitment bringing Cryptocurrency trading to emerging markets on a much broader scale. Through a team of experts with vast banking infrastructure networks across the globe, TRCE will be able to support its expansion in these geographic regions, giving it a substantial edge over other exchanges that limit their user base to less than a handful of foreign currencies.

One of the core objectives is to establish premium quality service for users by implementing around-the-clock customer service and a streamlined approach to KYC onboarding. When it comes to institutional clients, the OTC team at TRCE understands the importance of speed and proficiency to execute in the most efficient way possible. TRCE will work with clients throughout the process to build long term relationships and provide global coverage 24/7.

Lastly, educating its user base and the Cryptocurrency community as a whole is part of enhancing its user experience. TRCE is committed to executing this by having a regular flow of organizational events to help guide its users, as well as develop educational content on a consistent basis.

TRCE is currently raising $5 Million in its seed funding round and is on schedule to launch in Q4 2019. If you have any inquiries you may contact us for more details.

Contact Email Address

funding@trcexchange.com

Supporting Link

https://trcexchange.com

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.