DATE:  24.12.2019, 23:00:21
TITLE: Chinese Police Seize Thousands of Miners, Arrest Dozens of Scammers
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/chinese-police-seize-thousands-of-miners-arrest-dozens-of-scammers/

Chinese Police Seize Thousands of Miners, Arrest Dozens of Scammers

In the last couple of days, Chinese media have reported on police forces in one province of the vast Asian country seizing close to 7,000 mining rigs using stolen electricity and in another province arresting 72 multi-level marketing scheme operators for alleged fraud.

Also Read: Chinese Regulators Question 8 Crypto Companies in Shenzhen

Police Seize Thousands of Miners

Chinese police forces from the city of Tangshan, Hebei province, have seized 6,890 bitcoin mining rigs, state broadcaster CCTV (China Central Television) reported on Monday. According to the report this was the result of “special operations to combat the crime of power theft” by public security agencies in various places across the country, in conjunction with the State Electric Power Department.

The Hebei Tangshan Police claim that since April last year they have conducted comprehensive inspections of more than 70,000 households, factories, mines, courtyards, merchants, communities and villages, in conjunction with power supply and other departments. During one of these investigations, the police first found a suspicious private transformer in a compound in a village in Shuangqiao Town, Kaiping District, Tangshan, Hebei. After investigating the site, it was determined that the privately connected transformer was used to mine bitcoin. They seized 1,906 bitcoin miners.

The police also followed a lead and seized three high-power transformers and 790 bitcoin mining machines that were allegedly stealing electricity in a nearby village. According to the police, a rough estimate of the power consumption of the 790 bitcoin mining machines that were seized in that one incident gives them the same consumption of electricity for one day of continuous operation equivalent to the electricity consumption of more than 5,000 Chinese households a day. Police said that the crackdown on electricity theft will continue.

72 Cloud Token Operators Arrested

Police forces in the city of Taiyuan, Shanxi province, have arrested 72 Cloud Token operators according to an official video shared on social media platform Weibo on Monday. The video shows officers hauling off dozens of people in a local train station, hands handcuffed behind their backs, wearing numbered yellow vests and black sacks over their heads. The caption claims that Taiyuan Public Security successfully detected the first Cloud Token platform case in the city that used blockchain to trade virtual currencies in a scam involving more than 30 million yuan (over $4 million) and more than 300 victims.

According to media reports from the country, Cloud Token is a Chinese multi-level marketing scheme with high referral fees that started operating in January of this year. It is said to have similarities to the massive Plus Token Ponzi scam that some believe is responsible for crashing crypto prices.

What do you think about these two reports from China? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.