DATE:  23.08.2019, 15:26:00
TITLE: What To Know Before Investing In Bitcoin
URL:   https://www.nuwireinvestor.com/know-investing-bitcoin/

Recently, the Bitcoin, a digital currency, has caught the interest of many people, particularly those in the investment industry. After all, Bitcoin is a new-age cryptocurrency that operates in the online world. However, for anyone who hasn’t heard of Bitcoin, dealing with such currency may sound a little risky and suspicious.

If you’re planning to become a Bitcoin investor anytime soon, here are the basics you need to know before you invest in Bitcoin.

What Is Bitcoin?

Basically, Bitcoin is an electronic form of cash that allows anyone to make online payments to another person without having to go through a third-party institution like a bank. Due to Bitcoin’s distinct characteristics, it has been termed as the internet currency of the new world. It’s also encrypted into computer languages, which is why it can be transferred irreversibly compared to the traditional digital currencies.

Moreover, transactions made in Bitcoin can be finished instantly. As they run in a global network of computers, location isn’t a problem. It doesn’t matter if you send the Bitcoin to another person in Africa, Egypt, and in other parts of the world. This what makes Bitcoin a fast and global cryptocurrency to deal with.

What Are The Things To Know Before You Invest In Bitcoin?

Now that you’re aware of the basics of Bitcoin, it’s time to resolve your curiosity about this popular cryptocurrency. Although it has been a hot topic of debate in the financial community, here are the things you should know before investing in Bitcoin:

1. Bitcoin Is Decentralized

Compared to fiat currencies like the Japanese yen and the US dollar, Bitcoin as a cryptocurrency is decentralized. It’s not subject to the control of any third party, including a central government or other financial institutions. Since the Bitcoin exists under a decentralized system, you have the sole authority for its use without worrying about being seized or devalued by a third party. For example, you can invest Bitcoin in online casino and sporting websites like MintDice without going through the regulation of a central authority. However, you still need to be careful in investing in cryptocurrency casinos since local laws on the casino and sporting games vary from one state to another.

On the other hand, the decentralized nature of Bitcoin may also have a disadvantage. The lack of access and control by the government or other entities may lead to an increase in criminal activities online.

2. Bitcoin Is Digital And Pseudo-Anonymous

In addition to vital facts about Bitcoin, this cryptocurrency is digital because you can never touch a physical form of it. It’s an electronic currency that works entirely online and can be traced using blockchain technology. Moreover, a Bitcoin is pseudo-anonymous since it doesn’t require you to share your personal information. Since it’s available online, you can use your Bitcoin wallet ID in making transactions. Giving your name and other confidential information isn’t necessary.

3. Bitcoin Is Highly Volatile And Unpredictable

Although Bitcoin is used as a popular investment vehicle, it’s essential to know that cryptocurrencies like this are highly volatile. It means the price valuations fluctuate from time to time, which makes investing in Bitcoin a bumpy ride sometimes. If you want to consider this cryptocurrency’s investment opportunity as a profitable one, you need to accept that Bitcoin’s volatility comes with investment risks. Hence, you should only invest in the amount of money you can afford to lose to minimize losses later on. Plus, you should also prepare yourself to set a clear profit target when investing.

4. Be Sure To Learn The Mechanics Of Buying And Selling Bitcoin

Learning how to buy and sell Bitcoin is crucial when investing. By knowing the basics, you can anticipate what will more likely happen along the investment process. Start by looking for the easiest and safest platforms for buying Bitcoins. Be sure the one you find offers extended leverages, along with virtual training programs for beginners. Also, find a platform that is capable of accepting other kinds of cryptocurrencies. The next step would be learning how to safeguard your assets. In this situation, you have to make sure your Bitcoin is protected from the threat of scammers and cyber-attacks.

5. Avoid Leaving A Lot Of Money In Exchanges

With the help of modern innovations, popular exchange platforms for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies can be susceptible to hacking; hence, your entire funds may get lost in a few seconds. Also, even if you use the safest and most reliable passwords, this security feature may at times fail to protect your account against hackers.

So, to be on the safe side always, be careful with what you invest and avoid making a vast exchange using any exchange platform. Furthermore, if you don’t want to make a hefty bet soon, be sure you don’t leave your Bitcoins in your wallet for a long time.

6. Always Think That You Can Diversify

With Bitcoin’s popularity, it’s easier to invest in such cryptocurrency. However, take note that cryptocurrencies are of several kinds, and Bitcoin is just one of the thousands. The good thing is that even if you already invest in Bitcoin, always think about diversification as a great option. After all, diversifying your crypto investments can reduce the risks in Bitcoin. Meaning, don’t put everything in one basket. Instead, protect your investments by putting some in other cryptocurrencies available in the market.

7. Bitcoin Is Still Subject To Debate

Due to Bitcoin’s unclear origins and early stages of development, be aware that such cryptocurrency is still subject to debate and criticism. Maybe that’s because of Bitcoin’s distinct characteristics. Moreover, not all people understand how it works and what it can offer in the financial industry. But because of its ability to let investors earn considerable amounts of profit, more and more people are still attracted to invest.

Conclusion

Bitcoin has become a trend for a variety of reasons. But what makes it a booming subject in the public’s eyes is its ability to become a mainstream investment option. By now, you know the essential things to keep in mind when you decide to invest in Bitcoin. Above all, use this article to familiarize yourself with how Bitcoin investment works and drive your assets to success.