DATE:  23.12.2019, 18:18:31
TITLE: Bitcoin price gets Christmas boost, as cryptocurrency markets rise by billions
URL:   https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/bitcoin-price-latest-btc-cryptocurrency-market-christmas-a9258066.html

The price of bitcoin has moved up sharply over the last 24 hours, mirroring a trend in recent years to rise in value ahead of major holidays.

The market surge took the cryptocurrency above $7,500 (£5,700) for the first time since the start of December, adding $7 billion to its overall market cap.

It remains a long way off the highs of around $13,000 over the summer - and the all-time record of close to $20,000 in 2017 - but is a significant improvement from the start of the year, when bitcoin was trading below $4,000.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

The seasonal boost was predicted earlier this month, after research from digital currency exchange SFOX revealed that bitcoin has experienced positive market movements in the build-up to US holidays.

Similar price increases occurred in the run up to the Fourth of July holiday earlier this year, as well as Labour Day in September and Thanksgiving in November.

Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Show all 8 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters 1/8 Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters 2/8 Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz 3/8 Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin 4/8 The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash REUTERS/Dimitris Michalakis 5/8 The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images 6/8 Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images 7/8 Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash REUTERS 8/8 Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters

The research builds on previous studies that uncovered a correlation between bitcoin's price and Google searches relating to cryptocurrency.

"We posited that holidays could theoretically contribute to upswings in bitcoin's price because of families getting together, experiencing FOMO [fear of missing out], and subsequently researching and purchasing bitcoin," stated an SFOX blog post detailing the research.

"However, the most recent data we've analysed here show Google searches for 'bitcoin' peaking before holidays, not after. Regardless of which forces are really driving bitcoin's holiday behaviour, it seems as though bitcoin remains sensitive to major US holidays for the time being."

Other cryptocurrencies also experienced positive price movements over the weekend, including ether (ethereum), XRP (ripple) and bitcoin cash. These altcoins are even more prone to huge price swings than the notoriously volatile bitcoin.

"Historically this has been a time when traders do look at altcoins and therefore volatility may increase," Marcus Swanepoel, chief executive of London-based cryptocurrency firm Luno, told The Independent.

Analysis of the latest price increase led some cryptocurrency analysts to predict further gains over the coming days.

One claimed current market movements suggest bitcoin could reach $8,000 by early next week, though last week similar forecasts predicted bitcoin would see new losses heading into 2020.