DATE:  12.01.2019, 11:30:47
TITLE: The Daily: Genesis Reports 50% Increase in OTC Volume, Bittrex Moves 130,000 BTC
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/the-daily-genesis-trading-doubles-otc-volume-bittrex-moves-130000-btc/

The Daily: Genesis Reports 50% Increase in OTC Volume, Bittrex Moves 130,000 BTC

OTC crypto platform Genesis Global Trading has increased its annual trading volume by 50 percent and we’ve got the details in this edition of The Daily. We also feature an announcement by Bittrex which sought to calm traders who spotted 130,000 BTC being moved, and the launch of an offers bot by P2P exchange Hodl Hodl.

Also read: Critical Bug Found in Beam Wallet, Wirex Adds Another Cryptocurrency

Genesis Trading With 50% Increase in OTC Volume

The company began giving loans in bitcoin core (BTC), bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum (ETH), ripple (XRP), and other cryptocurrencies in March of last year. The entities that borrow the digital money, usually financial institutions such as hedge funds, use the assets to hedge investment positions and against dropping crypto prices.

Genesis Global Trading, which is part of crypto entrepreneur Barry Silbert’s Digital Currency Group, is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). In May 2018, the company was granted Bitlicense approval by the New York Department of Financial Services, which allows it to operate under the strict regulatory regime in the state.

Crypto Exchange Bittrex Expands Cold Storage

The crypto exchange, the 50th most popular by 24-hour trading volume, also made a couple of announcements regarding coins available for trading on its platform. Bittrex users can now trade paxos standard (PAX) with fiat money, after the stablecoin was recently added to its USD market.

“On Jan. 17, we’re launching a US dollar (USD) market for digibyte (DGB). Eligible Bittrex accounts are auto enabled for USD trading,” the platform tweeted on Thursday. In both cases, users who want to deposit or withdraw U.S. dollars via wire transfers should submit an application in advance.

Hodl Hodl Introduces Offers Bot

“In 2018 we created a separate Twitter account with the idea to connect cryptocurrency buyers and sellers to the latest and best offers at Hodl Hodl. We have operated this Twitter account manually up until now, and we decided to automate this process,” the developers explained this week. They have created a new Twitter account but the name remains the same – @offershodlhodl.

In the past months, Latvia-based Hodl Hodl has made a number of announcements about new features, including the introduction of non-custodial OTC trading and support for Russian ruble pairs with BTC and LTC. The exchange is also planning expansion in Asia and recently sealed a partnership agreement with Coins OTC, a company operating in the Asian over-the-counter sector.

What are your thoughts on today’s news tidbits? Tell us in the comments section.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading, Hodl Hodl.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can even lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.