DATE:  12.01.2019, 20:55:19
TITLE: Tron Can’t Handle Bittorrent’s Transaction Volume, Former Exec Claims
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/tron-cant-handle-bittorrents-transaction-volume-former-exec-claims/

Tron Can’t Handle Bittorrent’s Transaction Volume, Former Exec Claims

Simon Morris, who was Bittorrent’s chief strategy officer until July 2018, has expressed his doubts about the capability of the Tron blockchain to process the vast number of transactions that the popular file-sharing platform will demand. Morris believes there’s more marketing than technology behind the launch of the new crypto token.

Also read: Iran Labels Telegram’s Coin a Threat to National Security

BTT Transactions Will Melt Tron’s Blockchain

Bittorrent is planning to become one of the first projects to offer its coin on Binance Launchpad, a platform developed by the leading cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate fundraising. The upcoming launch of the Bittorrent Token (BTT), a digital coin based on the Tron protocol, has delighted Tron investors who saw the price of TRX jump from around $0.02 to over $0.03 in the week following the announcement. It has since dropped to almost its previous level.

Not everyone is excited about the new crypto, however, as some skeptics doubt the peer-to-peer file-sharing platform needs the tokenization in the first place. After all, it has been operating for years without a dedicated digital coin. Others, like Simon Morris, think a token is a good idea but note that Tron won’t be able to handle the enormous transaction volume that’s needed to tokenize the Bittorrent network.

At Bittorrent, Morris was responsible for exploring the potential benefits of the implementation of blockchain technologies and cryptocurrency. In an interview with Breaker Magazine, he shared that when he was the company’s chief strategy officer (CSO), his team realized that tokenization could potentially make the platform significantly faster, for example, though automated auctions to prioritize download queues. The former executive believes Tron is trying to implement a similar concept but he thinks there’s “no way” the capacity of its network would be sufficient.

The transactional capacity we were looking at was needing hundreds of transactions a second just to get started. It’s simply not there. You hear all the bullshit out there, oh, this does 10,000 transactions a second. It’s all crap. We were going to melt Tron. Literally destroy it.

Marketing Machine on Thin Veneer of Technology

Simon Morris expects Tron to proceed with the plan to tokenize Bittorrent, regardless of the outcome, seemingly doing what his team was trying to achieve. “But what’s very clear is that they’re going to say they’re going in the same direction, come what may, because that’s what Tron does … it’s basically a marketing machine layered on a very thin veneer of technology,” he said.

The former Bittorrent executive who left the company after its acquisition admits that Tron’s CEO Justin Sun is very strong at marketing: “He has a very nice personality from a marketing point of view. He doesn’t have a technical bone in his body. He wouldn’t understand, technically, anything,” said Bittorrent’s former CSO.

That’s why Morris believes that the new BTT coin will be issued on a different platform. “I suspect that what they’re really going to do is they’ll do it on some central server, they’ll wave their hands and say, ‘Oh, it’s a Lightning Network for Tron,’ or something, and pretend it’s Tron-based, but it’s not really Tron-based,” he elaborated.

In the interview, Simon Morris talks about the accusations from last year that Tron’s developers released a plagiarized whitepaper and used code without proper attribution. He also claims Tron’s chief executive Justin Sun dismissed his suggestion to admit that’s what happened before moving on.

What are you expectations about the tokenization of Bittorrent? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Express yourself freely at Bitcoin.com’s user forums. We don’t censor on political grounds. Check forum.Bitcoin.com.