DATE:  12.05.2019, 10:16:10
TITLE: Guide on How to Send Bitcoin From Cash App
URL:   https://smartereum.com/54228/guide-on-how-to-send-bitcoin-from-cash-app-buying-bitcoin-on-cash-app/

Cash App was launched in 2009 and since then, it has been the quickest way for users to send and receive money on the go. Buying Bitcoin on Cash App is also a breeze, and this makes the app appealing to both crypto enthusiasts and others who just want an easy way of transferring money. Many of these users want an easy guide on how to send Bitcoin from Cash App. This guide will show you how to send Bitcoin to Cash app.

Buying Bitcoin on Cash App – Bitcoin On Cash App

If you do not already have the app, you can download it from the App Store or Android Play Store. Next, open the app and pick the preferred mode, either cash, dollars or BTC.

If the options don’t show, swipe left or click on the BTC symbol at the top right-hand corner. The next step is to select buy and slide up to choose the required amount of BTC. Press buy after selecting.

You will need to confirm the transaction, so enter the Cash pin you use. iOS users can use Touch ID for this step. Before the purchase will be successful, the money will be pulled into your balance. This would also prompt some extra identification information to protect you.

Buying Bitcoin on Cash App is simple and convenient.

How to Send Bitcoin from Cash App – Bitcoin On Cash App

This process is also quite simple but may require some time to activate. You have to activate the “withdrawals” option from the Cash app. Verification is also required to complete the process and this can take a few days and sometimes, even weeks.

After the verification is complete, open the Cash app and find the “withdraw bitcoin” option. It can be located at the profile icon of the first screen. Check the top left corner to find it. You will first find the “funds” option, then click on “bitcoin.” Below the options to buy and sell bitcoin, you will find the “withdraw bitcoin” option. Click on it to specify the amount of Bitcoin you want to transfer. Hit the “withdraw” option and fill in the necessary information on the next page. You can opt to scan a QR code to add the recipient’s address. If you wish, you can enter the recipient’s address manually by using the “enter manually” option which can be found below the screen.

With this, you can send Bitcoin from Cash App. Note that you may need to buy Bitcoin first to use this service if you do not already have some. When you buy, remember that Bitcoin is volatile, and the price fluctuated heavily. You also need to pay fees for all transactions including selling, buying, and withdrawing. It is recommended that you buy more than what you need to transfer. Buying 8% or 10% extra is just perfect for each transaction.

Since Bitcoin price is skyrocketing, it is an excellent time to send bitcoin from Cash app. When next you need to do any transactions, you may just have some leftovers to work with.

Can You Skip The Verification Process? Bitcoin on Cash App

No, you cannot, skip the process because it is mandatory to submit photos of your ID as well as a selfie. All this information allows the company to know who they are dealing with so they can send the details to the government if there’s a case of money laundering.

Cash app is convenient to use and is presently the second most popular app on the Apple store. Buying Bitcoin on Cash app is also quite easy, and you can follow this guide on how to send Bitcoin from Cash App.