DATE:  12.05.2019, 13:45:00
TITLE: Track Rising Crypto Prices With Cryptowat.ch
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/track-rising-crypto-prices-with-cryptowat-ch/

Track Rising Crypto Prices With Cryptowat.ch

Cryptocurrency markets are booming this weekend and traders need adequate and timely information about prices and trends. Cryptowat.ch is an online platform that provides real-time market data and it’s highly customizable to suit the needs of different investors.

Also read: Decryptionary Helps New Investors Understand Crypto Terms

Online Platform Offers Real-Time Crypto Data and Charts

The website provides both numbers and charts for hundreds of cryptocurrencies. It pulls the data from multiple exchanges and it’s constantly updating it. By default, the prices of digital assets are displayed in U.S. dollars but the preferred quote currency can be changed to euro, British pound, Japanese yen, Chinese yuan, Korean won, BTC or tether (USDT). The graphs can also be customized with a dozen themes available in the Settings menu.

Cryptowat.ch offers many sorting and filtering options. Cryptocurrencies can be listed by volume, price change or in alphabetical order. Different time periods – daily, weekly, monthly, yearly or 2-years – can be set for any of the cryptocurrencies tracked by the platform. Cryptowat.ch also has a page that explores correlations between digital assets. Price changes are compared in a table with positive, negative or neutral variables.

The tracker has another useful feature – Portfolio View. It allows users to manage their crypto holdings across multiple trading platforms. To do that they need to create and set up an account allowing Cryptowat.ch to automatically pull in balances from the exchanges they are using. This will provide traders the opportunity to view their overall portfolio value in real time, both on desktop computers and mobile devices.

An alternative source of detailed price and market cap data is the Bitcoin Markets page, developed by Bitcoin.com. With the tool you can track your favorite digital coins and compare their indicators in major cryptocurrencies and fiat currencies. Also, check out our Bitcoin Charts page for charts showing price, capitalization, transactions, money supply, hashrate, blocksize, inflation rate, and fees for BCH and BTC.

What other sources of cryptocurrency market data are you using? Tell us in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Cryptowat.ch.

Do you need a reliable Bitcoin mobile wallet to send, receive, and store your coins? Download one for free from us and then head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can quickly buy Bitcoin with a credit card.