DATE:  29.10.2019, 02:14:00
TITLE: Elon Musk fury: Bitcoin scammers impersonate SpaceX boss to fleece millions from victims
URL:   https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/1196894/elon-musk-news-latest-twitter-account-bitcoin-scam-tesla-space-hackers-hacked

The promoted tweet asks followers of the head of Tesla to click on website link a for an “Elon Musk — Official ETH and BTC Giveaway”. The too good to be true crypto-giveaway describes Elon as coming up with an idea that the “marketing department at Tesla HQ came up”. It is announced as “special giveaway for all cryptocurrency fans out there”.

The scam account impersonated Elon Musk saying, “I believe it’s a good way to say thank you for all your support”. The scammers give two website links for holders of either Bitcoin or Eretheum, so that those that fall foul may send their cryptocurrency in order to be rewarded with a grand price. The deal is laid out as follows: “If you send in 1 BTC or 10 ETH, you will get the Grand Prize: a brand new Tesla Model S Performance with Midnight Silver Metallic, Solid Black and Red Multi-Coat exterior, delivery included.” But the scammers slip up in their copy, or may here be sowing the seed of their deceit, when they tweet, “At Tesla, we believe that cryptocurrency is the best asset that can be distributed globally in a transparent and trustless way.”

Elon Musk

These Elon Musk impersonated advanced payment scams continue to trap plenty of victims. Twitter should be able to stop seemingly identical scam messages with little effort. But, the simple-looking scheme is actually seriously sophisticated. Twitter has been trying to crack down on bitcoin scams promoted via fake Elon Musk accounts, it even caught out Musk himself, temporarily banning his account after he made a joke about selling bitcoin. JUST IN: Elon Musk adds 30,000 new satellites to his Starlink constellation

Elon Musk

For a time, it blocked accounts of anyone who changed their name to "Elon Musk", but no longer does so. Scammers even sought to dodge Twitter's algorithms by tweaking Musk's avatar in odd ways. According to Wire magazine, the most recent pattern is to take over a verified account, change the display name to Elon Musk, alter the avatar to his photo, post the message and then pay to promote it into as many timelines as possible. The more attention the scammers get, the more chance there is that people will donate. DON"T MISS:

Why Elon Musk branded invention ‘terrible and dangerous’ (news)

Why Neil deGrasse Tyson claimed mission to Mars ‘not going to happen'(news)

Why Elon Musk branded invention ‘terrible and dangerous’ (news)

Elon Musk

Variations on the theme have been running since March 2019, though the promoted tweets and attacks against verified accounts appeared to start in October. Wired magazine have researched the wording of these fake accounts and realised that they are almost always exactly the same, though the number of bitcoin promised differs and some posts feature typos, including misspelling "bitcoin". One tweet read, ”I’m giving 5 000 Bitcoin (BTC) to all community!", reads the tweet promoted from Florence's account. It followed, ”I decided to make the biggest crypto-giveaway in the world, for all my readers who use Bitcoin.

“I left the post of director of Tesla, thank you all for your support!” The message includes a bitcoin address to send a small payment to "verify your address". A Twitter spokesperson said that recent efforts targeting cryptocurrency scams mean "impressions have fallen by a multiple of ten", noting that is a "significant improvement on previous action."

Elon Musk with Todd Howard

Trending