DATE:  11.03.2019, 11:01:03
TITLE: eToro now lets you buy cryptocurrency straight from your wallet
URL:   https://thenextweb.com/hardfork/2019/03/11/etoro-cryptocurrency-wallet-bitcoin/

eToro is making it easier to load up your wallets with cryptocurrency. The company announced users of its standalone wallet – available for Android and iOS – can now buy crypto-assets directly from the app itself.

Starting today, all assets supported in the wallet – Bitcoin (BTC), Bitcoin Cash (BCH), Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Ripple (XRP), and Stellar Lumens (XLM) – can be purchased directly within the app using a credit or a debit card.

“We believe that cryptoassets and the blockchain technology that underpins them will revolutionize global finance. In the future, all assets will be tokenized and we are just taking the first steps on this journey,” said eToro founder Yoni Assia. “Removing obstacles when purchasing crypto will help drive mass adoption.”

There’s a catch though: the wallet’s new built-in purchase feature only works with euros and pounds sterling, which suggests it might not be immediately available to US-based users. We’ve asked the company for clarification, and will update this piece accordingly if we hear back.

For the record, eToro initially unveiled its wallet solution for Android and iOS in November 2018. Back then, the app supported only BTC, BCH, ETH, and LTC, but the company has since added more options, including XRP and XLM. Indeed, there are plans to add even more assets to the wallet in the near future.

It’s been a busy week for eToro. Just a few days ago, the company launched its cryptocurrency-to-cryptocurrency exchange service in the US, where users in 32 states can now trade 13 different crypto-assets.

In the meantime, you can download eToro’s wallet for Android by clicking here – or here, if you happen to use an iPhone or an iPad.

Did you know? eToro will be joining us at the Hard Fork track at TNW2019, our tech conference in Amsterdam. Check it out.