DATE:  11.03.2019, 09:30:42
TITLE: PR: Blockchain Day at RISK 2019
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-blockchain-day-at-risk-2019/

PR: Blockchain Day at RISK 2019

This is a press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

The international conference RISK 2019 to give host to Blockchain enthusiasts and experts on the second day of the conference in Laško, Slovenia

REAL security d.o.o. the organizer of annual RISK conference 2019, the largest IT security event in Adriatics is proud to present their first blockchain technology event – Blockchain Day, which will be held on the second day of the conference on 21st of March 2019, at the congress center of Thermana Park Lasko in Slovenia.

RISK 2019 will follow the proven format from past years while featuring a record number of presentation and information exchange opportunities. Those will come in form of keynote speeches, company and solution presentations, interactive workshops, technology demonstrations, discussions, meetings, talks at exhibition booths in a lively networking area, connecting at evening social activities and much more. In 2019 the organizer expects a diverse audience of 600+ people at RISK conference and around 100 blockchain experts on the blockchain part of the event. They will be coming from companies of virtually all sizes and verticals, with majority of participants from mid- and large-sized companies that operate in fields of (but not limited to) Financial services, Energy and Utilities, Service providers, Government and Insurance and, of-course, many attendees also from regional Information technology companies. Participants are coming from all IT roles, including CIOs, CISOs, CTOs, IT team leads, Senior Engineers, Specialists, Consultants, but also Sales Engineers and Sales Managers of IT companies. Guests will arrive from more than 20 countries, primarily from the Adriatic region but also from other EU countries and some guests from Israel and the USA. Blockchain enthusiasts, evangelists and experts are already expected to take part.

“For the first time since the existence of RISK conference we have teamed up with Bitcoin.com, who is also main sponsor of Blockchain day, Bitcoin association Slovenia, European Blockchain HUB and other important influencers to organize first Blockchain Day at RISK conference. It’s a critical time for blockchain technology as it needs to prove itself on the world stage. World legislators are clamoring to regulate blockchain to suit their own interests and while this does give cryptocurrency and the blockchain more legitimacy, it also lessens many of the benefits of blockchain. Community is arguing over what Satoshi actually intended. What is clear is that Satoshi never could have predicted the tremendous successes of blockchain and maybe had a completely different idea for the future. We are delighted to show the latest developments in blockchain industry with respected speakers and the real practitioners who will talk about innovative solutions as well as their experience and ongoing projects.” said Renato Uhl, organizer of RISK conference 2019 and CEO from REAL security.

Blockchain Day will be hosting some of leading influencers from Slovenia and abroad that will discuss a variety of topics in a sequence of presentations with keynote and opening session sponsored by BITCOIN.COM and performed by Mate Tokay, COO of Bitcoin.com. It will be followed by presentations from Jure Pirc, the president of Bitcoin association Slovenia and CEO at BLOCKMASTER blockchain tehnologije, Blockchain Alliance Europe with panelists Dr. Szabolcs Hargittay, Alen Šalamun, CTO from REAL security and founder of BC VAULT, Simon Belak, philosopher-hacker, Kristian Ilijevski, Blockchain and decentralized economy expert, Ivo Grlica, Founder at Nobile Law Solution, Tomaž Furlan, expert from Blockchain Think Tank Slovenia, Luka Pušić, Certified information security professional, Klemen Zajc from Netis and the representatives from CARGO X and Panda Exchange. Presentations will conclude with a roundtable panel where the participants of the conference will be able to place questions to the speakers and presenters.

“In 14 years, RISK grew with exponential rate to the today’s stage, when we cannot talk just about a conference anymore, but about the premier knowledge exchange platform in this region, where IT experts from world renowned IT vendors, their colleagues and partners from regional IT companies, IT professionals from local customers and many others meet with a common goal – to learn from each other. Adding Blockchain day to the conference was a natural step since we always believed in great ideas and technologies, what blockchain for sure is!” commented Alen Šalamun, CTO from REAL security.

###

About REAL security:

REAL security d.o.o. is a value-add distribution and engineering company specialized in information security. It is focused on the needs of business users in demand of comprehensive, reliable and proven solutions. REAL security’s experts provide quality consultancy, design, construction and maintenance of complex computer networks and sophisticated software solutions. For more information, please visit: www.real-sec.com

For press information, please contact:

Samo Zavasnik

REAL security d.o.o.

Tel: + 386 2 234 7474

samo.zavasnik@real-sec.com

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.