DATE:  08.03.2020, 14:10:22
TITLE: 1st Bitcoin ATMs Opposed By Financial Regulator Of Germany
URL:   https://bitcoinik.com/1st-bitcoin-atms-opposed-by-financial-regulator-of-germany/

Measures to oppose 1St Bitcoin ATMs by Germany financial regulator



The operation was undertaken by company KKT UG from Berlin which ascertains its customers to buy and sell cryptocurrencies at ATMs has been stopped by the German financial watchdog, reported on 06 March 2020.



Absence of required permission



Date: 4 March

According to the report, Mr. Adam Gramowskl, the managing editor of KKT UG has been ordered by BaFin on 26th Feb in order to cease cross border proprietary trading.



The company gets its advertising done on its website www.shitcoins.club for 24 bitcoin machines for purchase and sale of cryptocurrencies in Germany. It serves entire Europe through its business enhancement.

Gramowskl also works as CEO of bitcoin technology in Torun, Poland.



As per Bafin, The Gramowskl is engaged with commercial proprietary trading through KKT UG which leads Bafin to have a license under the German Banking Act. operators lacked the necessary permission for this.



The urgency of Bafin licence issued to Germany based bitcoin ATMs.



In Germany, the status of cryptocurrencies ATMs is backed with uncertainty.

The responsibility is not properly clarified by January 2020. The Berlin court of appeal estimated that commercial trading of bitcoin would not be punishable if not undertaking permission of authority on the matter held on Sep 25 of the previous year against the operator of bitcoin exchange Bitcoin 24 that is been disclosed.



Past few years the tendency of having the legal status of bitcoin and cryptocurrencies conducted by Bafin was declared illegal.



In 2020, The new anti-money laundering regulations will be certainly introduced by the government of Germany. The licence issued by Bafin is necessarily accessed by a business concerning cryptocurrency such as digital exchanges, custodians, and wallets, etc.



By June 2020 companies prerequisites to pass on their application, be in need to get their license by February 2020.

Earlier this week, Germany Officially Announced Cryptocurrency as Financial asset