DATE:  08.03.2020, 09:21:23
TITLE: Feed sheeps by donating Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, XRP and IOTA
URL:   https://www.crypto-news-flash.com/feed-sheeps-by-donating-bitcoin-ethereum-litecoin-xrp-and-iota/

A software engineer has developed an interactive donation platform where a flock of sheep is fed with BTC, ETH, LTC, BCH, XRP or MIOTA for each donation.

There is a livestream on Twitch and YouTube where the donors can control the angle of the camera and view the flock of sheep from different perspectives.

In the Czech Republic, Karel and Kamilia Böhm have bought a small plot of land on which they keep a flock of sheep. To help his wife raise the adopted Ouessant sheep, the software developer came up with something very special. Since the middle of 2018 it is possible to support the sheep indirectly through a donation in the form of cryptocurrencies.

Originally the project started with the German cryptocurrency IOTA and was called “SheepTangle”. For each donation, the sheep automatically receive tasty alfalfa pellets, which are fed with small snacks via a specially designed device. However, due to the protracted breakdown of the IOTA network caused by the previous hack of the MoonPay integration of the Trinity Wallet, no donations could be submitted.

As a result, Karel expanded the portfolio with Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Bitcoin Cash and XRP. To donate, viewers simply need to scan a QR code and transfer a minimum amount of USD 0.50 to Karel’s wallet. Karel displays the QR codes in the livestream on his YouTube channel.

As soon as a donation arrives, the treats are released via a placed tap in the enclosure. Karel has even integrated a lighting wallet so that the sheep can receive their snacks even faster. The developer further notes that there are currently only about 20 feedings per day with rather smaller amounts. The most used currencies so far are ETH, LTC and BTC via the lightning network.

In order to be able to see the sheep in the best possible way, the donors can set up an alarm that drives the sheep into the pen. Afterwards the best shots can be obtained with adjusted camera settings. In addition, users can collect “sheep points” and take part in a “raid” on the barn. The couple pays attention to the safety of the animals, so that the animals can only be fed from 8 am to 8 pm.

Karel is planning to extend the menu so that the users can then choose between different meals for the sheep. This story shows what cryptocurrencies can be used for in people’s everyday lives. Crypto News Flash has also made a donation and is happy about imitators.

Here you can watch the livestream from YouTube:

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don’t miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?