DATE:  27.03.2020, 03:14:23
TITLE: Crown Platform Releases “Emerald”
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/03/26/crown-platform-releases-emerald/

In-house NFT Framework to tokenize assets on the Crown blockchain

Key Points

Crown Core v0.14 “Emerald” brings the NFT Framework to mainnet.

The NFT Framework enables decentralized, non-fungible token issuance for tokenization of assets on the Crown blockchain.

Artem Brazhnikov, Crown Platform technology lead, is author of the in-house NFT innovation.

The decentralized registry functionality activates on March 24.

The Crown Platform NFT Framework enables the tokenization of assets on the Crown blockchain by the issuance of protocols and tokens. With this release, authored by technology lead Artem Brazhnikov, Crown Platform extends its functionality to serve as a decentralized and immutable registry: an asset-chain.

Starting today, individuals, businesses and institutions can become issuers of unique protocols and tokens, specifying their rules and participating in the creation of a decentralized on-chain registry linked to the CRW public-key cryptography and powered by a highly secure Masternode Proof of Stake consensus mechanism. The Crown Platform development has been focused on the usability of the framework. That is why no additional coding language is needed to program the tokens, unlike Ethereum’s ‘Solidity’ approach. As Brazhnikov puts it,

“The NFT Framework is a way to tokenize assets without writing any asset-specific code.”

The NFT Framework represents a central part of the always evolving Crown Platform ecosystem. NFT applications range from registry of digital and physical assets to the extension of Crown’s governance and consensus structures through additional possibilities of registry, authentication and documenting. This development milestone is a big step forward for the Crown Platform and its enthusiastic community, and there are more to follow.

Implementing instant NFT transactions for non-fungible asset exchange and trading are among the top development priorities, together with the soon-to-be released Bitcoin v0.17 codebase update.

Crown Stakeholders have been working on this pioneering cryptocurrency project for years, allowing Crown Platform to evolve through its Decentralized Governance and Proposal System: an algorithmic voting and funding mechanism that allows the Crown Platform project to self-sustain its path towards further technological and social innovation. By doing so, Crown Platform is creating an alternative, decentralized economy based on its native fair-launch coin, CRW.

The Crown Platform community is committed to enabling an open, decentralized, and community-governed infrastructure, supporting functionalities that leverage the potential of blockchain technology while remaining truthful to decentralization and permission-less interaction in a cryptographically secure and incentivized peer-to-peer network.

New users are joining Crown Platform every day, adding new ideas to build on its technology. If you want to get started with the Crown Platform or have any questions, you can get in touch with the community following the links below.

This content is sponsored and should be regarded as promotional material. Opinions and statements expressed herein are those of the author and do not reflect the opinions of The Daily Hodl. The Daily Hodl is not a subsidiary of or owned by any ICOs, blockchain startups or companies that advertise on our platform. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in any ICOs, blockchain startups or cryptocurrencies. Please be advised that your investments are at your own risk, and any losses you may incur are your responsibility.