DATE:  27.03.2020, 21:56:17
TITLE: Ethereum Bulls Incoming? Total Value Locked by DeFi Apps Up 28% in 3 Days
URL:   https://coingape.com/ethereum-eth-primed-for-bulls-as-the-total-value-locked-by-defi-apps-up-28-in-3-day/

The total value of ETH locked by DeFi dapps in USD terms is up 28% in the last three days, a boon for traders who witnessed one of the largest single day fall of Ethereum on Mar 12, 2020.

Advertisement

Ethereum is the leading platform for decentralized finance or open finance applications.

Its decentralized nature and smart contracting capacity means that the network is perfect for coin holders to earn interest or borrow loans from their digital asset stash.

The Age of DeFi

There are several DeFi applications, and after the fall of mid-March, the amount of ETH locked is now up to $623 million up from $487 million of Mar 23.

ETH is the collateral for all the CDPs released by Ethereum-based DeFi lending and loaning apps.

Advertisement

Because of the volatile nature of ETH, a digital asset open to market forces and autonomous like Bitcoin, creators prefer their loans in DAI to be over-collaterized. The current ratio is 150%.

The rise in the total value of ETH held by DeFi dapps is a mark of confidence and a leading indicator of a correction. As observed, there seems to be a positive correlation between the locked value and the price of ETH.

ETH Primed for Higher Prices as TVL Rise 28%

The Total Value Locked (TVL) peaked on Feb 15 when $1.23 billion in ETH were cumulatively held by DeFi apps.

Coincidentally, this the time when ETH peaked. On Feb 15, ETH prices reached $277 before falling in subsequent sessions.

However, the TVL of DeFi apps fell immediately and by Feb 19 when ETH retested $277, the amount locked stood at $1.20.

At the moment, ETH is consolidating at $135, $15 shy off the main resistance at $150. Meanwhile, TVL is bottoming up, up 28% in three days.

If history guides and price action are anything to go by, ETH will likely edge higher.

MakerDAO Troubles

Meanwhile, MakerDAO remains the most dominant application despite heavy losses on Mar 12-13 when Ethereum was temporarily clogged.

The slow network means that the collateral auction couldn’t function as coded and there are individuals who placed zero bids.

This was recouped when the foundation minted extra MKR tokens to compensate victims.

Summary Article Name Ethereum Bulls Incoming? Total Value Locked by DeFi Apps Up 28% in 3 Days Description The total value of Ethereum (ETH) locked by DeFi dapps is up 28% in the last three days, a boon for traders who posted deep losses on Mar 12, 2020. Author Dalmas Ngetich Publisher Name CoinGape Publisher Logo

Binance Futures Limited Offer: Use Use this link to register & get 10% discount on fees.



Disclaimer The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Coingape is committed to following the highest standards of journalism, and therefore, it abides by a strict editorial policy . While CoinGape takes all the measures to ensure that the facts presented in its news articles are accurate.The views, opinions, positions or strategies expressed by the authors and those providing comments are theirs alone, and do not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, positions or strategies of CoinGape. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss. Instant loans by local bank transfer using your crypto as collateral