DATE:  27.03.2020, 15:15:41
TITLE: Prestmit, A Platform For Nigerians To Buy & Sell Gift Cards And Bitcoins
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/prestmit-a-platform-for-nigerians-to-buy-sell-gift-cards-and-bitcoins/

Prestmit, A Platform For Nigerians To Buy & Sell Gift Cards And Bitcoins

Due to the advancement of cryptocurrency and the widespread of gift cards in the Nigerian market, Prestmit, a Nigerian platform, now provides the absolute solution that gift cards and bitcoin enthusiasts within and outside the country have been looking forward to.

Talking to the CEO of Prestmit, the firm ensures that customers get credited in less than 5 minutes as the payment system is automated, adding that such feat has seen the two-year-old company boast of over a thousand daily transactions.

“We have observed that the best way to grow the business is in one word — trust. And over time, we have created trust in our existing and potential customers and given them assurance. As a matter of fact, we have built a large customer base over the past two years on Whatsapp and Telegram. Now we have set up an automated platform, it can only get better.” he says.

Users can now sell gift cards on Prestmit within 5 minutes, not limited to that, the innovative service also allows users to buy gift cards and pay in local currency or bitcoins. At the same time, users can exchange bitcoins, buy airtime and pay cable bills, all in one platform.

Best of all, the payment process on the platform is instant as it has partnered with financial institutions to send payments automatically, immediately as it is requested. This gives users a level of guarantee that they get to trade at any time and also receive payment instantly, without hassle.

Speaking at the launch of the new service in Lagos, the CEO said they would continue to do things differently, question the norms, come up with innovations tailored to make life easier for bitcoin and gift card traders in Nigeria.

Conclusively, this is a great development from the Prestmit team, judging by the arrangement of things, no one will be surprised if they take over the gift cards and bitcoin market in Nigeria soon.

Prestmit Contact Info

Whatsapp/Telegram – 07026290389

Contact Email Address

Support@prestmit.com

Supporting Link

https://prestmit.com

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons