DATE:  03.01.2019, 10:00:20
TITLE: Thai Government Agency Develops Blockchain Tech for Elections Voting
URL:   https://www.coindesk.com/thai-government-agency-develops-blockchain-tech-for-elections-voting

A Thailand government agency has developed a blockchain-based solution that’s set to digitalize elections voting in the country.

According to a report from Bangkok Post on Thursday, Thailand’s National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), a unit of the Ministry of Science and Technology, has already completed the development of the system for blockchain-based voting and is looking for trial partners.

Chalee Vorakulpipat, head of the cybersecurity laboratory at NECTEC, was quoted as saying in the report:

“Nectec developed blockchain technology for e-voting that can be applied to national, provincial or community elections, as well as business votes such as the board of directors. The goal is to reduce fraud and maintain data integrity.”

At this stage, the agency is looking to test the blockchain system on a smaller scale, such as for elections in universities, provinces and communities, and is seeking partners for the test.

For large-scale implementation, such as for general elections, the agency will require more time as “every voter needs to have an affordable mobile internet connection and identity verification,” Vorakulpipat said in the report.

Several countries have been looking to use blockchain technology for more efficient voting processes. Back in November, South Korea announced that it was set to test a blockchain system in an effort to improve the reliability and security of online voting.

In August, the municipal government of Japanese city Tsukuba tested a blockchain-based system that lets residents cast votes to decide on local development programs.

The U.S. state of West Virginia also planned to roll out a blockchain-based mobile voting app to all of the state’s 55 counties so that military personnel stationed overseas can more easily cast their ballots in the 2018 midterm elections.

Voting box image via Shutterstock