DATE:  25.01.2019, 10:30:19
TITLE: PR: Smartrade Launches Cryptocurrency Exchange
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/pr-smartrade-launches-cryptocurrency-exchange/

PR: Smartrade Launches Cryptocurrency Exchange

This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release.

Fixed fees, hundreds of USD trading pairs, world class security

BURLINGTON, Ontario

Smartrade announces the launch and growth of their comprehensive trading platform with friendly for the masses ease of use, that also services advanced investors and trading methods.

Unique to the industry – a USD pairing on nearly each of the 164 assets with an expansion in offerings to increase throughout 2019. What Smartrade offers is the depth and extensive list of 600 trading pairs and support of an equally thorough list of fiat options.

The goal and vision of this platform is to establish a one stop cryptocurrency trading destination, eliminating the reliance on other platforms to wire in and out, or find suitable trading pairs. Smartrade offers easy deposits, fixed fees, transparent trading combined with the peace of mind of painless withdrawal.

Casual investors enjoy a simple interface to execute basic trades, and more experienced traders can access familiar tools for complex trading. All within a 100% secure, transparent platform activity with audited reporting.

Unique to the industry, Smartrade adds training resources for any investor to educate and enjoy all the features trading crypto assets has to offer. With over a dozen security features, 2FA, offline cold wallet storage, measures that are expected of today and tomorrow’s leading exchanges. Users have access to 24/7 live chat support as this secure and trusted platform looks to expand further into equities and new markets in the coming year.

For the next 30 days, at smartrade.com/press new users are offered free trading for 30 days. After that period, low, fixed fees are posted and transparent.

Smartrade is a registered trading platform meeting FinCen and Fintrac guidelines. Users in Canada European Nations and Asia supported at this time. Smartrade is an AppLife Digital Solutions Inc. portfolio company. AppLife Digital is an SEC regulated company.

Cryptocurrencies and digital tokens are high risk investments that may lose some or all value potentially resulting in financial loss. These instruments are intended for high-risk investors and are not suitable for all investors.

Contact Email Address

media@smartrade.com

Supporting Link

https://smartrade.com/press

This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.