DATE:  22.10.2019, 09:30:42
TITLE: Bitcoin.com Launches HashRace Promotion to Maximize Miners’ Profits
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-com-launches-hashrace-promotion-to-maximize-miners-profits/

Bitcoin.com Launches HashRace Promotion to Maximize Miners’ Profits

JAPAN, TOKYO, October 21, 2019 — Bitcoin.com, the world’s leading resource for cryptocurrency-related products and news, has launched the HashRace, a Bitcoin.com Pool promotion aimed at maximizing profits for its extensive network of Bitcoin mining clients.

The 180 day promotion, which began on October 21st, 2019, will reward miners with an unlimited hashrate bonus for directing their own hashrate to the Bitcoin.com mining pool. Every miner contributing at least 500 TH/s will receive a ‘hashrate bonus’ in the form of free hashrate, dependent upon the individual miner’s contribution over the course of the promotion.

The campaign, broken into two 90-day phases, aims to provide participants with the opportunity to maximize mining profitability before the upcoming Bitcoin halving, forecasted for the Spring of 2020.

During the initial 90 day accumulation period, promotion participants are encouraged to increase their hashrate bonus by directing as much hashrate as possible to the Bitcoin.com mining pool. Following the close of the accumulation period, participants’ hashrate bonuses will be locked in according to their hashrate contribution during the preceding Accumulation Period.

From the onset of the accumulation period, HashRace participants will receive hashrate bonuses based on the amount of hashrate contributed to the Bitcoin.com Pool. After the bonus lock-in, participants will continue to receive their hashrate bonus by maintaining a daily contribution greater than 50% of their average hashrate directed to Bitcoin.com during the accumulation period.

Hashrate bonuses will be received in 30-day intervals over the course of the promotion and participants will typically receive a 7.5 TH/s bonus for every 500 TH/s that they directed to the Bitcoin.com mining pool during the accumulation period.

In conjunction with The HashRace mining promotion, Bitcoin.com has also unveiled The HashRace Top 10 Leaderboard, which will display a real-time ranking of the top hashrate contributors over the course of the promotion.

A larger HashRace Leaderboard Bonus of 10 TH/s per 500 TH/s contributed incentivizes larger mining clients to compete for a place on this top 10 leaderboard.

Bitcoin.com is dedicated to providing industry-leading support and services to both new and existing miners. For more information on the HashRace promotion, visit mining.bitcoin.com/hashrace.

Contact Email Address

press@bitcoin.com

Supporting Link

mining.bitcoin.com/hashrace