DATE:  22.10.2019, 08:30:18
TITLE: This smartphone from HTC can run a full Bitcoin node, but there is a catch!
URL:   https://siliconcanals.com/news/htc-exodus-1s-runs-full-bitcoin-node-launched/

The cryptocurrency market has undergone significant growth in the last couple of years. Since 2009, thousands of unique cryptocurrencies have popped up, but Bitcoin remains the most popular one till now.

While a lot of tech startup founders are skeptical about the decentralized technology in the near future, HTC, a Taiwanese smartphone maker, has launched a cheaper phone aimed at cryptocurrency users called the HTC Exodus 1S. Notably, this is the followup to the Exodus 1 that was initially released last year.

Please keep reading.. As the coronavirus pandemic unfolds in the world, we at Silicon Canals are committed to... Show More As the coronavirus pandemic unfolds in the world, we at Silicon Canals are committed to creating the biggest possible impact on the technology industry and startup ecosystem by bringing quality journalism to your devices. But today we rely on our readers to support us. We are asking you a big favour to make a contribution and support our editorial team to continue to investigate and write some insightful stories for you during these crisis times. We want to stand by you and do whatever it takes to bring the best news content to you.Our stories are free to read, exclusive, unbiased and always with an edge and with your financial support, we can keep the wheel spinning independently. Our online news platform is run by a small, independent publisher without any form of external capital or grants but still, we plan to stay here for long.We’d like to thank you in advance for your contribution! Each donation, however big or small, means a lot. Support Silicon Canals from as little as €10 – it will only take a minute. Thank you again. Show Less

Exodus 1S supports Bitcoin Full Node!

With this device, the struggling manufacturer looks to shift its strategy to focus on new technology. Exodus 1S is a Cryptophone – the first-ever mobile device with Bitcoin Full Node support. In layman terms, the phone can validate and transmit Bitcoin transactions without the help of a centralised third party.

Phil Chen, decentralized chief officer at HTC, said:

We gave users the ability to own their keys, and now we’ve gone one step further to allow users to run their full Bitcoin node. We are providing the tools for access to basic universal finance, the means to have a metaphorical Swiss bank in your pocket.

But there is a catch!

Even though it’s the first smartphone, it has limitations as well. The Taiwanese tech giant recommends to connect the phone to WiFi and plug it into a power source while it’s running the full node. Also, users need to have an SD card with 400GB capacity or more to hold a full copy of the Bitcoin ledger.

He added:

Full nodes are the most important ingredient in the resilience of the Bitcoin network, and we have lowered the barrier to entry for any person to run a node, which is simply a computer, mobile in our case, participating in the global Bitcoin network that propagates transactions and blocks everywhere, which is the foundation and fundamental definition of a peer-to-peer cash system.

Expand the blockchain ecosystem

With Exodus, HTC is looking to expand the blockchain ecosystem to more users than ever before, putting the power of cryptocurrency directly into users’ hands and pockets! HTC has developed its cryptocurrency wallet called Zion to make its new phone function as a hardware cryptocurrency wallet.

Zion Vault!

The Zion Vault uses the Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) to protect your private keys and sensitive data. When signing transactions, the TEE activates and temporarily isolates the operating system so that all your data is always safe.

Dismal specifications!

Outside of its blockchain capabilities, the Exodus 1S comes with below-average specifications. It sports a 5.7-inch HD display, three-year-old Qualcomm Snapdragon 435 processor backed by 4GB RAM, 13MP camera on both front and back.

Price and availability!

The device costs around €219, which is cheaper than the Exodus 1. It’s worth mentioning that the user can pay for the Exodus 1S in cryptocurrency for the equivalent price through BTC, ETH, LTC, BNB, or BCH. The Exodus 1s is available in Europe, Taiwan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. However, the device isn’t available in the US and most parts of Asia yet.

Is HTC back?

Once the powerhouse in the cellphone industry, HTC has dwindled in recent years, with competitors like Apple, Samsung, and other Chinese OEMs winning over the market. Will Exodus 1s revive the past glory of Taiwanese maker? Do let us know your comments in the section below.

Main image credit: HTC Exodus

Stay tuned to Silicon Canals for more European technology news.