DATE:  08.01.2020, 06:44:38
TITLE: Bitcoin Daily: Aragon Jurors; R3 Gets Patent
URL:   https://www.pymnts.com/blockchain/bitcoin/2020/bitcoin-daily-aragon-court-recruits-jurors-for-tokenized-dispute-resolutions-r3-granted-patent-for-blockchain-record-sharing-platform/

Aragon has begun seeking human jurors as the governance platform gears up to roll out its tokenized ‘court,’ Coindesk reported on Tuesday (Jan. 7). Community members will have the ability to receive new Aragon Network Juror (ANJ) tokens in exchange for the project’s ANT tokens. Anyone who has at least 10,000 staked as well as activated ANJ tokens can serve as a juror.

Three jurors are assigned to each case. They are assigned at random, although their chances of being chosen grow with the size of an ANJ holding. Jurors deliberate, as well as rule, on a case and receive a “token reward for doing so” per the report. A juror who votes against the other two, however, will have his or her staked tokens sent to the winning jurors.

Aragon, for its part, offers the tools as well as the framework to make decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) from those for one or two individuals all the way up to multi-faceted structures. The company’s website notes that its court system will encompass “subjective disputes that require the judgment of human jurors.”

And R3, the enterprise software vendor, has earned a patent for a record system based on the blockchain that is meant to bring greater efficiency to corporate information sharing, Coindesk reported. The patent details a “system and method for managing transactions in dynamic digital documents” that would offer a shared distributed ledger to companies to offer parties the same data record that can’t be changed.

R3’s patent is built on the private blockchain. It has the ability to duplicate “every transaction to ensure all parties with access to the ledger, but not necessarily involved in any one transaction, have current and immutable information.” The award comes only a little more than a week after R3 earned a patent for a new decentralized payment system that doesn’t need to make use of a blockchain.