DATE:  24.02.2020, 04:40:25
TITLE: ‘A Date With Every Presidential Candidate’ Goes Viral on Twitter – With a Large Soda, a Cosmo and a Bitcoin Plug
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/02/23/a-date-with-every-presidential-candidate-goes-viral-on-twitter-with-a-large-soda-a-cosmo-and-a-bitcoin-plug/

‏‏‎

Andrew Yang may be out of the race for the White House, but his legacy lives on in a tweet – as a hot crypto date. New York-based writer and editorial director Nicole Najafi dished out a flurry of date night-themed tweets for her 10,000 Twitter followers to illustrate the eclectic personalities of the leading US presidential candidates.

The crypto community on Twitter is giving a thumbs-up for Najafi’s take on a date with Bitcoin supporter and former presidential candidate Andrew Yang, who recently bowed out of the Democratic primary. While Yang may have stepped down, ‘A date with Andrew Yang’ has currently racked up 22K likes, the second-highest number of retweets among all of the dining presidential candidates.

Najafi, who claims she “went on a date with every single presidential candidate so you don’t have to,” summarized her take on a morning excursion with Elizabeth Warren, whose date tweet has garnered the third-highest number of likes.

Elizabeth Warren – 20.8K likes

“You meet at 6:00 A.M. on a Sunday for a hike. She packed a first-aid kit, sugar-free snacks, and brought you an extra visor. After mile five, you get tired and ask to rest. She keeps going without you.”

Pete Buttegieg and Joe Biden come in at fourth and fifth place.

Buttegieg – 18.1K likes

“He takes you to an Afghan restaurant and orders the entire meal in Dari. A man of color walks by and he says ‘wassup my brotha!’ You leave the emergency room at five A.M.”

Biden – 15.8K likes

“He takes you to dinner in the Meatpacking District. He orders you a cosmo before you arrive, like on that ‘new show Sex and the City’. He talks all night about a hot nightclub where his friend Barack has a table and can ‘get us in.’ Barack never shows up.”

‏‏‎

Fresh off his win in the Nevada caucuses and flashing double-digit leads over all of his competitors in the latest CBS News poll – except for Elizabeth Warren – Democratic frontrunner Bernie Sanders is on fire with his date tweet pulling in 61.1K likes at time of writing.

You can check out Najafi’s full thread of date tweets here, including appearances by Michael Bloomberg, Tom Steyer, Amy Klobuchar and Tulsi Gabbard.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/mything