DATE:  24.02.2020, 17:00:53
TITLE: Crypto Groups Worldwide Top 1.8 Million Members, Seattle Preps for ‘Bitcoin Socratic Seminar’
URL:   https://dailyhodl.com/2020/02/24/crypto-groups-worldwide-top-1-8-million-members-seattle-preps-for-bitcoin-socratic-seminar/

‏‏‎

Event coordination site Meetup now hosts over 4,000 groups each for cryptocurrency and Bitcoin (BTC), with more than 1.8 million members and 1.6 million members respectively. Topics range from blockchain and machine learning to Ethereum (ETH) to alternative investments.

The popular platform is one of several tools that industry insiders use to help educate the crypto-curious and reach a mainstream audience.

The fourth Seattle Bitcoin Socratic Seminar, slated for February 28th, will walk participants through a range of Bitcoin related topics such as pull requests, security vulnerabilities and the basics of blockchain.

Members hope to use the Socratic seminar format to spark a discussion as students listen, evaluate, learn and then contribute their own thoughts and comments about Bitcoin and how it works.

The Seattle event will focus exclusively on Bitcoin and its ecosystem. According to the listing,

“This will be a Bitcoin (BTC) only event. We will only be discussing Bitcoin and auxiliary technologies that respect the Bitcoin Blockchain and UTXO, like Lightning, Liquid, Simplicity, Statechains etc (in other words, no altcoins, no ‘blockchain technology’ for anything other than Bitcoin).”

CoinMe, the largest operator of Bitcoin kiosks with nearly 2,600 cryptocurrency ATMs throughout the world, will host the upcoming Meetup at its downtown offices.

Check Latest News Headlines



Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

‏‏‎

Featured Image: Shutterstock/cdrin