DATE:  01.03.2020, 11:44:27
TITLE: Bitcoin Casino adds Loony Blox Slot Game by Habanero
URL:   https://news.tunf.com/bitcoin-casino-adds-loony-blox-slot-game-by-habanero/442711

Loony Blox is a slot machine from Habanero and is now available on Bitcoin Casino. This is the latest release from the famed developer and it comes with beautiful cartoon styled graphics. This is almost like the same thing you’ll get from the Loony Tunes cartoon you watched growing up.

You’ll play with 5 x 3 reels, and the winning combo come through 243 different ways to win. The top jackpots are 1,000 times the sum staked. Although, it doesn’t look like it, you have to keep in mind that Loony Blox is seen to be highly volatile.

Looking at it from the perspective of RTP, it is as high 98.02 percent. Other things to consider about this title is the linked reels, expanding wilds, scatters, or the fact that you can form wins in two ways.

BETTING AND PRIZES

Bets are chosen from the bottom area. Also, you need to select the coin’s value, together with the bet’s level. The bet’s level decide how many coins will go into each virtual line. Bets are within the range f $0.25 minimum to $5,000 maximum.

Regarding the top payouts for the slot, Loony Blox offers about 1000 times the sum staked which is only fair to say the least. Knowing the slot has a high volatility, this means that the risk involved while playing is on the high side yet the rewards don’t correspond. A single combo will at most give a bettor 10 times the sum staked.

This is where the game fails to meet up to expectations as the rewards are not commensurate with the volatility. When set to the highest, you’ll get a return of 98.02 percent.

FEATURES

The first feature we’ll be checking out is the Cactus Wild. This is the symbol that will serve as a substitute for other symbols. If you’re lucky to land it on 5 reels, it pays its combos, and they are worth as high as the top symbols.

The bit that is unusual is next. There are 3 Character symbols used in the game, and a random symbol is shown on the slot for 250 rounds. There are several features active but it depends on which of the 3 characters is shown.

THEME & DESIGN

The game is inspired by the famous cartoon Loony Tunes, with well-designed cartoon characters. There are 3 of these characters here, including a Rabbit, Elephant, and Wolf. The game is set somewhere in the North American desert, and you’ll be awash with several big rocks and cactus plants which can be seen in the background.

In addition, the symbols range from Diamonds, Cactus Wilds, Bar logos, Cactus 7s, Bells, Lemons, Cherries, Melons and Apricots.

CONCLUSION

Without any doubt this slot is impressive from first impressions and the features that come with it are quite good. One thing you have to be on the lookout for is the game’s RTP.