DATE:  01.03.2020, 13:50:43
TITLE: Bitcoin-Sporting Watford FC Takes Down Undefeated Liverpool
URL:   https://beincrypto.com/bitcoin-sporting-watford-fc-takes-down-undefeated-liverpool/

Watford FC has pulled off a surprise win against Liverpool with a final score of 3-0. While on the field, Watford FC players boasted a prominent Bitcoin BUY NOW logo on their jerseys.

Cryptocurrencies are taking the sports world by storm – and one team has just bested all odds while sporting the Bitcoin logo on their sleeves. Could it be a sign of good luck?

Watford FC Takes Victory

The previously undefeated Liverpool met their match yesterday with a stunning defeat at the hands of Watford FC. Watford FC managed to secure the victory in a blowout, winning 3-0. They are currently the only team to beat them this entire season.

Could the sponsorship they were sporting have brought them good luck? That’s what many in the cryptocurrency community are saying: the team was rocking a bright Bitcoin logo on their sleeves. It is prominently seen in some photos shared by Nik (@nikcantmine) today.

Incase you weren’t paying attention today, @WatfordFC (the premier league team with the Bitcoin logo on their arm sleeve) beat undefeated Liverpool 3-0. The only team to beat them this season, with only 11 games left in the season. Power of the honey badger #Bitcoin 😎🍻🦡 pic.twitter.com/3Nhx5SE0uV — Nik (@nikcantmine) March 1, 2020

Bitcoin was confirmed as a sleeve partner for the team in December 2019, according to the team’s official website. The sponsorship is being done by sports betting brand Sportsbet.io. They called it an attempt to “challenge the accepted norms.”

However, Watford FC is still a far way away from the leaders in their group. They are currently 17th out of 20 in the Premier League, with Liverpool leading the pack by far.

The Cryptocurrency Craze in Sports

The sports world has been looking at the cryptocurrency industry with significant interest. From payments to digital collectibles, the collaboration has much to offer fans as well.

Beyond the Premier League, even sports stars have been voicing their support for cryptocurrencies. In some cases, they even want to be paid in it. Russell Okung of the NFL’s Los Angeles Chargers, for example, has been pushing to have his salary be in Bitcoin (BTC) for some time now.

Although 2019 was an explosive year for cryptocurrency sponsorships in the sports world, this year is set to make an even bigger splash.

Do you want to Be In Crypto?Join our Telegram Trading Group for FREE Trading Signals,a FREE Trading Course for Beginners and Advanced Tradersand a lot of fun! Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Trading View and Twitter.