DATE:  01.03.2020, 08:15:49
TITLE: Ex beekeeper who lost €54m in bitcoin after he was caught running grow houses gets open prison boot over mobile phone
URL:   https://www.thesun.ie/news/5136518/ex-beekeeper-bitcoin-caught-mobile-phone-prison/

THE former beekeeper who lost €54m after he was caught running three grow houses has landed himself in more trouble.

Loner Clifton Collins’ drug empire was ruined last week after the High Court ruled the 6,000 bitcoins — worth €53,773,740 — he bought when peddling weed over a 12-year period were obtained through proceeds of crime.

2 Clifton Collins' empire was ruined last week

2 Wheatfield Prison in Dublin Credit: News Group Newspapers Ltd

At the time of the ruling, Collins, 49, was serving a five-year term in the open prison Loughan House in Co Cavan, for masterminding a €406,000 weed factory in Co Galway.

But the former security guard — who was producing mind-bending cannabis for criminals linked to the Kinahan cartel — was transferred to Dublin’s Wheatfield Prison a few months ago after he was caught using a mobile phone.

Collins — who blamed his “stupidity and cannabis addiction” for his decision to grow his own grass — is expected to complete the punishment he received in January 2019 at the high security jail.

'BAD DECISIONS'

The drugs supplier is due for release in September 2021 but could end up spending more time in prison because of his actions.

A prison source said: “He just keeps making bad decisions and this is yet another one.

“Collins was getting on OK at Loughan House but the authorities were left with no option but to transfer him because he was breaking the rules.

“He’s now surrounded himself with a lot more dangerous people than what he was used to in an open prison.”

'VERY SOPHISTICATED'

The Irish Sun can also reveal new revelations about the grow house he was running in Farnaught, Cornamona, Co Galway.

In their submissions to the High Court as part of their efforts to seize Collins’ 6,000 bitcoins, the Criminal Assets Bureau told how he was running a “very sophisticated” grow house.

They said: “Four of the rooms were converted for the purpose of growing plants and contained a large number of cannabis plants.

“The rooms were lined with reflective insulation and the lights were wired through transformers, had timers and height adjusters.

“A water pump had been set up for the easy watering of the plants and a full air filtration system was in operation.

"The ESB meter was also bypassed. The cannabis was packed and ready for sale.”

MOST READ IN NEWS DAILY GROWTH DECREASE Covid deaths peak on April 12 as 77 deaths happened over several days HERD IMMUNITY Top doc says Ireland could be hit by up to NINE more waves of deadly Covid-19 death figure shock Covid-19 death toll sees huge jump as 77 more people confirmed dead Exclusive wonder woman Miracle Dublin gran beats Covid-19 after overcoming cancer and smashing hip Live Blog COVID BATTLE NPHET to discuss childcare support for health workers during Covid-19 epidemic Comment NEIL COTTER If the pubs were to be allowed to reopen tomorrow I wouldn't go in

During interviews with cops in 2017, the drug dealer told how he had 89 bitcoins in one online account and 6,000 in another.

Terrified they could be stolen, he wrote the codes to his “online wallets” on pieces of paper and hid them in a fishing rod.

But the rod disappeared shortly after his arrest following a break-in at his rented property in Galway.