DATE:  01.03.2020, 16:10:46
TITLE: Microsoft Edge browser will protect users against unwanted Bitcoin mining
URL:   https://www.crypto-news-flash.com/update-to-microsofts-edge-browser-will-protect-users-from-unwanted-bitcoin-mining/

Microsoft released an update to its Edge browser that protects users from applications that perform illegal or unwanted Bitcoin mining.

The update for Edge (80.0.338.0) will have the new feature for blocking potentially unwanted application downloads (PUA).

In a post on the Microsoft blog, the Edge development team announced the release of an update for the browser. Edge version 80.0.338.0 will have a feature that will allow for automatic detection and blocking of potentially unwanted applications (PUA). Among these, are those that violate equipment security to illegally mine Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.

According to the publication, the team developed this feature after receiving feedback from its users. Potentially unwanted applications, by their nature, are detected long after they have been installed on the computer and put the user’s security at risk. In addition, they make machines less productive and directly affect an equipment’s performance. The Edge team states:

Examples of PUA include software that creates extra advertisements, applications that mine cryptocurrency, applications that show offers for other software and applications that the AV industry considers having a poor reputation.

The feature will be disabled by default, but it can be activated by the user through the configuration menu, in the privacy and services section as shown in the image below:

Users may also enable applications that the browser mistakenly labels as PUA. Again, this must be done through the settings menu. The user only has to check the option Keep and Keep anyway, when receiving the warning from the browser. Additionally, users will be able to report the apps they consider safe. The Edge team adds:

We encourage users to always try to download software from a trusted location, such as the publisher’s website or a reputable app store, and to check reviews of the app and the reputation of the publisher before downloading.

Microsoft and Ethereum rewards program

As reported by CNF, the technology giant Microsoft has been increasing its participation in the blockchain industry. Through a cooperation with Ethereum, in collaboration with Enjin (ENJ), they launched the “Azure Heroes”. The project aims to reward their users for creating demos, sample code or blogs about Azure. Users will be rewarded with digital collectibles.

Collectibles are tokenized badgers that users will receive. The tokens are divided into 5 categories: Inclusive Leader, Content Hero, Community Hero, Mentor, Make. The tokens are based on the Ethereum ERC-1155 and approximately 12,000 tokens were created.

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don’t miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?