DATE:  21.06.2019, 19:00:11
TITLE: Franck Muller Launches Bitcoin Watch In Partnership with Regal Assets
URL:   https://www.ablogtowatch.com/franck-muller-launches-bitcoin-watch-in-partnership-with-regal-assets/

Bitcoin might have fallen from its all-time high of $19,783, but it remains an attractive asset for investors — especially those looking for alternative assets to put their money in. The cryptocurrency recently rallied and rose above $9,300 over the last week, its highest in 13 months. And if you have assets in bitcoin and want to keep them handy, then you’ll want to check out the Franck Muller Encrypto.

Launched in association with Regal Assets — an alternative assets firm — the Encrypto is a watch that doubles up as a bitcoin wallet. It comes in a Vanguard-style tonneau-shaped case that measures 43mm across and 53mm lug-to-lug. Though its dimensions are quite large, the watch is actually fairly slim, at just 13mm. Owners have a wide choice of case materials that include stainless steel, titanium, carbon fiber, and gold. Once they have picked their ideal case material, owners can choose to customize their dial and case with diamonds. They can also pick their preferred color of alligator-leather strap.

Regardless of customization options, the center of the dial features a bitcoin logo that sits inside a laser-etched circuit board design. Surrounding it is a pattern of the QR code of bitcoin’s genesis address — the very first bitcoin block. At 6 o’clock is a small unobtrusive date window, and at 12 o’clock is a laser-etched QR code. The QR code contains the public address of a “cold wallet” you can add funds to. Bundled along with the watch is a separate USB stick that holds the private key, which lets owners set up a “live” or “hot” wallet that can be used to transfer bitcoins or claim funds.

The Franck Muller Encrypto features the Caliber FM 0800. Sadly, the FM 0800 is not an in-house movement. Instead, it is a modified ETA or its equivalent. It beats at 4Hz and has a power reserve of 42 hours. The movement is hidden behind a solid caseback that features the Bitcoin logo.

I’m not familiar with bitcoin, but the Encrypto looks like it could be fun if you are into the cryptocurrency. Aesthetically, I think the Encrypto is a little too brazen and could use more restraint, but at least it does offer some functionality for bitcoin enthusiasts. As I mentioned earlier, the Franck Muller Encrypto is available in stainless steel, titanium, carbon fiber, and gold, with prices beginning at $10,780. In gold and with diamonds, the price rises to $55,800. Each case material is limited to just 500 pieces. For more information, visit franckmullercrypto.com.