DATE:  26.09.2019, 22:14:15
TITLE: Bitflyer Adds Bitcoin Cash Trading Across Europe and the US
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitflyer-adds-bitcoin-cash-trading-across-europe-and-the-us/

Bitflyer Adds Bitcoin Cash Trading Across Europe and the US

Bitflyer has added a selected number of new cryptocurrencies for its European and American clients to trade. Bitcoin cash (BCH) is among the few digital assets now available to buy and sell on all licensed platforms operated by the Japanese company.



Also Read: NASA to Launch Bitcoin to the Moon? Space Agency Seeks Crypto Experience

Bitflyer Adds New Cryptos in Europe and US

Major Japanese exchange Bitflyer has announced the addition of a few new cryptocurrencies to its buying and selling platform across Europe and the US. The company’s users in Europe are now able to buy and sell bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum classic (ETC), litecoin (LTC), lisk (LSK) and monacoin (MONA), directly on the regulated platform. Meanwhile, American customers now got access to bitcoin cash (BCH), ethereum classic (ETC), and litecoin (LTC). The new cryptos offer Bitflyer customers an alternative to bitcoin core (BTC) and ethereum (ETH), the two former options on the platform.

Andy Bryant, Co-head and COO, Bitflyer Europe, said, “By adding new altcoins, we are expanding Bitflyer’s Buy/Sell offer significantly, giving our customers instant access to some of the largest and most exciting altcoins in the world. Those currencies were previously only available to our Japanese customers, so we’re also consolidating our offer across regions, building a global platform for traders all over the world. By leveraging our experience in Japan, we can offer our European and US customers the same level of speed, simplicity, and transparency as we already do for those trading bitcoin and ethereum”.

Licensed on Three Continents

Bitflyer Inc. is one of the largest bitcoin exchanges in Japan by trading volume. Since it was launched in 2014, the platform has served more than 2 million users. It was founded by Yuzo Kano, a former Goldman Sachs trader, and counts among its investors major Japanese financial firms such as Mizuho, GMO, SBI, Mitsubishi UFG capital and more. In June 2018 the company temporarily stopped accepting new customers, following a business improvement order from the Japanese Financial Services Agency (FSA) and resumed accepting new accounts again in July 2019.

Bitflyer USA was launched in November 2017 and it located in San Francisco. The service currently operates in 46 states and territories, including New York as it holds the state’s very hard to obtain Bitlicense. The expansion to the American market was soon followed by the creation of Bitflyer Europe, launched in January 2018, with an office is located in Luxembourg. These two fully-owned subsidiaries distinguish the group as being licensed to operate on three different continents.

What do you think about Bitflyer adding bitcoin cash buying and selling across Europe and the U.S.? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH, and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.