DATE:  02.10.2019, 16:00:34
TITLE: These Debit Cards Will Help You Spend Your BCH Anywhere
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/these-debit-cards-will-help-you-spend-your-bch-anywhere/

These Debit Cards Will Help You Spend Your BCH Anywhere

Cryptocurrencies like bitcoin cash are ideally suited to payments. While their popularity increases with growing awareness of the benefits of peer-to-peer electronic cash, mass adoption remains a long-term goal. In the meantime, some fintech products are helping to improve dramatically the spendability of decentralized digital money in a fiat-dominated world. There’s now a choice of crypto debit cards that will help you pay with BCH anywhere bank cards are accepted.

Also read: Bankers Start to Recognize Bitcoin’s Role in Financial Evolution

US Crypto Cards That Can Be Topped Up With BCH

The Bitpay card is the leading product of its kind in the U.S. and in fact one of the few remaining options for American crypto users after alternatives like Shift became unavailable. The card issued by the well-established crypto payment service provider supports bitcoin cash (BCH) and bitcoin core (BTC). Those who have a Bitpay wallet can convert their coins into U.S. dollars and spend them with any retailer accepting Visa.

U.S. residents can now also use a crypto debit card from Blockcard. Once you sign up, add digital money, and pass KYC, you’ll be able to get a virtual Visa card. You can fund your account with a number of major cryptocurrencies such as BCH, BTC, ETH, and LTC, as well as several stablecoins. Note that the deposited amount is converted to ternio (TERN) which is then sold for fiat at the time the purchase takes place.

According to the platform’s website, you can also use your account to make payments via Apple Pay and Google Pay. The Blockcard crypto debit card is currently available in the United States only but the company plans to launch in over 30 European jurisdictions in the future.

Coinbase, America’s leading cryptocurrency exchange, is already offering a debit Visa in 19 countries in Europe. The plastic Coinbase Card is currently available to customers in Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, and the U.K. The trading platform intends to add other markets.

The card can be employed for online and offline payments, at all retail locations that accept Visa. Holders can also withdraw fiat at ATMs around the world. The daily spending limit is £10,000 or €10,000, while cash withdrawals are limited to £500 or €500 respectively.

More Options Available to Europeans

BCH enthusiasts on the Old Continent definitely have more options at their disposal than Americans. At least two other card providers support bitcoin cash. 2gether is a financial platform providing services in the Eurozone, where it allows users to send and receive euros and cryptos from the same wallet app. It also issues a Visa debit card linked to its wallet. As its website explains, your money is managed by Pecunia Cards, an electronic money institution regulated under EU law and supervised by the Bank of Spain.

Bitnovo, another Spanish platform, buys and sells more than 20 major cryptocurrencies. Besides facilitating trades, it has a mobile application and issues debit cards that don’t require a bank account and can be topped up with BCH and other coins with large market cap. Its Bitcard can be used to pay bills online and purchase items in brick and mortar stores as well as withdraw fiat cash at ATMs. It’s currently available only to EU residents.

Europeans can also order a virtual or plastic debit card from Uquid. The cards are powered by bitcoin cash among other cryptocurrencies that can be converted to British pounds, euros and U.S. dollars. The platform promises unlimited online spending, ATM withdrawals and fee-free POS purchases. But to find out if the card is available in your country, you need to create an account first. It’s free of charge but you’ll have to pay for the physical card itself.

Other cards that support bitcoin cash and are available to customers elsewhere include Crypto.com’s MCO Visa. The company started shipping its cards to clients in Singapore last year and added BCH this past May. It plans to introduce the card in the U.S. through a partnership with a local affiliate and the New York-based Metropolitan Commercial Bank.

If you need to acquire bitcoin cash you can safely and securely purchase BCH and other cryptocurrencies at buy.Bitcoin.com. You can also freely trade your crypto assets on our noncustodial, peer-to-peer marketplace, local.Bitcoin.com, or register at our recently launched premier trading platform, exchange.Bitcoin.com.

Are you using a crypto debit card that supports BCH? Do you expect to see more cards on the market soon? Tell is in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock, Blockcard, Bitcard.

Do you need a reliable bitcoin mobile wallet to send, receive, and store your coins? Download one for free from us and then head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can quickly buy bitcoin with a credit card.