DATE:  08.09.2019, 08:58:39
TITLE: You Can Buy a Dream Car With Bitcoin Cash at Autocoincars.com
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/you-can-buy-a-dream-car-with-bitcoin-cash-at-autocoincars-com/

You Can Buy a Dream Car With Bitcoin Cash at Autocoincars.com

Buying a new car is always a thrill. Purchasing a luxury vehicle, a roadster or a classic even more so. But such an enjoyable acquisition is usually accompanied by time consuming formalities. When all you want is to sit behind the wheel as soon as possible, these additional steps can be a nuisance for most people. Finding a dream car you can buy with cryptocurrency will certainly save you some time and effort, especially when cross-border payments are involved. You can now do that with BCH on Autocoincars.com, a platform that works with leading supercar dealers.

Also read: Why Portugal’s Tax-Free Crypto Trading Matters for Bitcoin

Purchasing a Supercar With BCH Is Easy

Browsing through car ads can be a pleasure and a curse. It takes time to find the right model and make that suits your taste and needs. Multiple websites nowadays provide car buyers with a plethora of offers. However, if you are not only a petrolhead but also a crypto enthusiast, there aren’t too many platforms with a good choice of vehicles you can purchase with digital coins.

Autocoincars.com is a website where customers can find a rich choice of high-end models, from comfortable and practical SUVs, to fancy sports cars and even collectible classics with detailed service history. And the best part is that all of them can be bought with bitcoin cash (BCH). The company works together with Bitcoin.com to expand the use of peer-to-peer electronic cash.

The precious automobiles are sold by established U.K. dealers and can be delivered to buyers in other countries as well. One of the platform’s main partners, Redlinespecialistcars.co.uk, is the largest independent supercar dealer in Britain. They cooperate to promote crypto and have already made numerous sales to clients opting to pay with digital assets. David White, Auto Coin Cars chief operating officer, told news.Bitcoin.com:

We transacted a Lamborghini from the U.K. to Germany last month, a $300k car. One younger crypto user bought his mother a $70,000 Range Rover for her birthday surprise – all in crypto. And last week we had an enquiry from Sydney, Australia for a £2 million Aston Martin. Exciting times.

The portal bets on bitcoin cash, offering clients the opportunity to purchase Ferraris, Lamborghinis, Aston Martins, and many more quality brands with BCH. All of its ads have the asking price displayed in a range of fiat currencies such as U.S. dollar, British pound, euro, and UAE dirham. But Autocoincars.com specifically targets cryptocurrency users who want to buy a car with bitcoin and their pricelist starts with a price quote in bitcoin cash. Customers can also pay with the platform’s own token, autocoin.

Crypto users who want to buy cars do not search Autotrader, Pistonheads, Motors, or any other traditional portal, the website explains. “Why would they? They would struggle to find a car dealer that accepts bitcoin on there. Instead, they search Google for ‘buy car with bitcoin’ or one of the many hundreds of search terms for which Autocoincars.com is ranked number 1 and page 1. They select a car, contact the dealer and agree [to] a deal in the usual way. They then pay for the car with bitcoin or other crypto through our regulated exchange and we pay the dealer prior to the car being delivered.”

Auto Coin Cars’ team further notes that there are over 3 million cryptocurrency wallets in the U.K. alone, which illustrates the growth potential for this market in the future. A study conducted this year by Technavio projects that the global luxury vehicle market will grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of more than 12%, or approximately 8,000 units within five years.

Accepting crypto payments opens up a whole new area of business that was until recently unavailable to car dealers. Millions of people around the world now own cryptocurrency and many would readily use their coins to purchase a new car thanks to the speed and security crypto transactions bring to the table.

At the same time, car dealers can now easily accept cryptocurrency and convert it immediately into fiat money if they want to do that, safely and securely. They can use the website’s Sell Now section to register with the platform, providing more information about themselves and uploading their ads to reach millions of crypto users globally.

North London-based Auto Coin Cars employs experienced crypto professionals and automotive specialists who have provided a simple answer to a supply and demand issue. Car buyers want to spend their crypto, while car dealers are not set up to accept it yet. Many of them realize the benefits of cryptocurrency payments once they try them.

Bitcoin cash, for instance, offers immediate and secure transactions at a very low cost, often less than a U.S. cent per transfer. And the funds are available almost as soon as the payment is made with no chargebacks or card fraud. Auto Coin Cars’ clients are typically high net worth individuals who can also take advantage of the privacy that comes with crypto payments and rely on an instant crypto-fiat exchange eliminating price fluctuations.

Some of Auto Coin Cars’ sports and performance vehicles are offered only to crypto users in closed auctions. These automobiles are the highest quality models supplied by the U.K.’s top car specialists. According to the platform, all of them are carefully selected, come with full service history and are in immaculate condition confirmed by independent reports. The first such auction will be held in late 2019. Potential buyers can register now and receive details about each month’s offerings, along with the terms and conditions of participation.

Auto Sales With Crypto Payments Are a Promising Market

The niche Auto Coin Cars operates within is likely to grow in the future. So is the popularity of crypto payments in general, especially now when many expect to see a new crisis in the traditional financial system as early as next year. At this point in time, the platform doesn’t have too many competitors. Another website selling supercars and classics for cryptocurrency is Bitcars.eu. Most of the listed vehicles are in Europe, but the platform can deliver them to a specific location, arranging transportation and customs clearance. Bitcars accepts bitcoin cash (BCH) and bitcoin core (BTC) through the payment processor Bitpay as well as XMR, ETH, LTC, DOGE and DCR via Globee.

Buysellcarwithbitcoin.com is a platform allowing users to publish ads for vehicles on sale or pick a listed car that can be bought with bitcoin. The website connects buyers and sellers who want to finalize their deal in cryptocurrency. Just like Auto Coin Cars, Buysellcarwithbitcoin allows you to select a location near you, choose a brand, set a minimum and maximum price, and search by keywords. The portal also publishes ads for auto accessories such as car audio systems, view cameras, rims, and many more. Dealers selling high-end vehicles for crypto also include Post Oak Motor Cars, a Bentley, Bugatti and Rolls-Royce dealer in Houston, and Hollywood-based Jem Motor Corp.

If you buy a second hand car whose interior needs refreshing and detailing, you can always use the services of Cockpitdekor.com where you can order trim parts for you dashboard, center console and doors. The best thing is that you can buy them with bitcoin cash. Cockpitdekor promotes the benefits of paying with cryptocurrency. The company is based in the U.K. and Slovakia, but its customization kits are sold globally. And in Venezuela, a country where cryptocurrencies have been gaining ground on the backdrop of an unstable and highly inflated national fiat, auto insurance plans can now be purchased with bitcoin cash, as news.Bitcoin.com recently reported.

Payments using decentralized digital currencies are likely to spread further in this and other industries. If you want to purchase bitcoin cash and other major cryptocurrencies you can do that at buy.Bitcoin.com. To freely trade your crypto assets, visit our noncustodial, peer-to-peer marketplace local.Bitcoin.com, which already has thousands of users from around the world. Also, check out our newly launched premier trading platform exchange.Bitcoin.com. Registered users can access it right now and over 10,000 have already signed up.

Would you buy your next car using cryptocurrency? Tell us what you think about crypto payments in the auto sales industry in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

Do you need a reliable bitcoin mobile wallet to send, receive, and store your coins? Download one for free from us and then head to our Purchase Bitcoin page where you can quickly buy bitcoin with a credit card.