DATE:  15.03.2019, 12:13:46
TITLE: The Bitcoin Disruption Is The Only Tech Disruption You Need To Know About This Spring
URL:   https://blockpublisher.com/the-bitcoin-disruption-is-the-only-tech-disruption-you-need-to-know-about-this-spring/

What is Money?

Money, what is this thing? Is it gold, well it used to be. Is it love, well, it has become that. Is it a need, well Buddha lived without it. Is it a weapon well it could be used to buy them. Money is evolving and it is helping and enabling whole large ass chunks of societies with it. It is some creative, outer space incepted, unicorn-poop, dangly cluster-fuck of a creation that has driven countries mad and turned the world into a concrete jungle. No, we are not haters like that, it is just what it is. Money turns the world bonkers, while it continues to fuel things, empower people and help charities do all their good work. We have no intention of being a warmonger, just shining some light into the true side of things.

What has changed now?

We are stuck up people who have evolved from apes. Similarly, our money has evolved from barter, trade, giant gold coins, gold bricks, copper, metal, to paper money backed up by an international gold standard, to fiat and now to bitcoin and its descendants. That is a hell of a journey. The journey of the first bank by the Medici family in Spain, during the late 2000 BC, to the case of a 100-year-old bank by the Leeman Brothers failed, to today’s state of the art blockchain developments that are identical to banks, has been harder on its own people.

Perhaps this is the way that capitalism and meritocracy works. Or the myth of meritocracy and as some ancient medieval souls call it, fate has done more harm than good, but today technologies that empower self-employment and decentralization are ready to put forth an unprecedented battle. And people are shaken.

Something like 30 years ago, when Mario Kart first came out our notions of money were shooketh. A kid from that time would have had a heavy time explaining to their parents how does the game money matter, why are we collecting that gold, what for, why when there is no value of it. Sure, yes, it is a game, sure it is fun to play, sure Pacman eats cheese and this is a tad bit more creative than that, sure this is the new narrative and all the Atari’s, King Kong’s and Family computers can be cooler but we are liking ourselves right now and its all because of Mario, his girl, and their gold coins.

What the fuck is transparent money?

No, it is not physically transparent, although it can be argued that it is, that beautiful and pun-loaded argument is for another time. Transparent money is crystal clear and written in stone, a digital stone. The etching in stone here really means that no changes can be made to it, well, you can try, as people try, but at some time people catch up and they find what the fuck is happening after all. The system is self-guarding and the participants work as a team not as a team working under a person, authority or ruler, but as a democratic and truly decentralized team that agrees on a consensus that gives it all the intellect it needs to be self-sufficient and effective.

Digital money, internet money, cryptos, whatever you call them, whatever people may call them, they changed humanity. This was the biggest disruption of a lazy industry that wouldn’t change itself that mankind has seen so far in the history of disruption.

Money is now transparent, i.e it can be asked about who has done what to it, with it, when, how, why and what not. It has all the answers people need that fiat fails to provide. The record keeping is kept forever. It is decentralized, this means that bitcoin is not owned by some Leeman Brothers, so the double spending really is not possible, it is smart that way.

Bitcoin is for everyone. Finally, Martin Luther King Jr. can have his dream. Finally, the Lincoln Memorial can be visited with lesser guilt, pain, and shame. Because, bitcoin does not differentiate people and discriminate them on the basis of their color, creed, caste, status or nationality. It is the true essence of a world of tomorrow and it means major political and social changes are to follow us. Because now money can be free for all to use, even if banks fail people, communities, refugees, and countries, bitcoin does not.