DATE:  24.04.2019, 09:40:10
TITLE: Crypto of the Day App Gauges Investor Sentiment and Market Trends
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/crypto-of-the-day-app-gauges-investor-sentiment-and-market-trends/

Crypto of the Day App Gauges Investor Sentiment and Market Trends

Taking relevant investment decisions in the crypto space requires comprehensive information about current trends and a good idea of the sentiment of market participants. A mobile application called Crypto of the Day aggregates data about both and offers some other useful features.

Also read: Crypto Rocket Lets You Track Over 2,000 Cryptocurrencies

Finding the Coins That Can Grow

Crypto of the Day is an app developed for Android devices. In essence, it represents a social network that analyzes digital assets and their market movements. Traders can use it to find out which coins have the highest potential for growth based on the ratings and recommendations of the app’s community and Telegram channel members.

Users can create their own cryptocurrency portfolio and share it with others. Crypto of the day supports all major cryptocurrencies including bitcoin cash (BCH) and many other coins. The app runs a vote on them every day and each crypto has a dedicated page with a chart for different time periods, current price, market cap, trading volume, and other users’ comments.

The application aggregates breaking news and analyses, updates and video reports about market trends. There’s a pumps and signals page as well. The app lists top rated cryptocurrency exchanges and wallet providers and a calculator helps investors compare digital assets in fiat currency equivalent.

To stay informed about the prices and market valuations of hundreds of cryptocurrencies you can also check out Bitcoin.com Markets. It allows you to pick your favorite coins and compare their indicators in major cryptocurrencies such as BCH and BTC and in a number of fiat currencies including U.S. dollar, euro, British pound, and Japanese yen. The platform is available in multiple languages.

Do you ever consider other crypto traders’ opinions when taking investment decisions? Tell us more about your strategy in the comments section below.

Disclaimer: Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to third party companies or any of their affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any third party content, goods or services mentioned in this article.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock.

At Bitcoin.com there’s a bunch of free helpful services. For instance, have you seen our Tools page? You can lookup the exchange rate for a transaction in the past. Or calculate the value of your current holdings. Or create a paper wallet. And much more.