DATE:  17.03.2020, 01:30:22
TITLE: Bitcoin.com Exchange to Sponsor Decentralized Collectible Card Game Splinterlands
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-com-exchange-splinterlands/

Bitcoin.com Exchange to Sponsor Decentralized Collectible Card Game Splinterlands

Splinterlands is one of the most popular collectible trading card games in the cryptocurrency scene and a successful decentralized app. To help the game attract more players, and introduce them to bitcoin cash at the same time, Bitcoin.com Exchange will be sponsoring a number of upcoming Splinterlands tournaments.

Also Read: Pirate Chain Coin Now Available for Trading on Bitcoin.com Exchange

Bitcoin.com Exchange to Sponsor Splinterlands Tournaments

The team behind the collectible card game Splinterlands (formerly known as Steem Monsters) has announced on Monday that Bitcoin.com Exchange will be sponsoring the rewards for its next two ranked play seasons. The cryptocurrency trading platform will be sponsoring a total of eight tournaments over the course of the next month with a total of $1,000 in prizes.

The tournaments will start on Saturday, March 21, 2020 and two will be taking place each weekend for four weekends. The tournament prizes will be paid out in bitcoin cash (BCH), and all entrants will be required to link a BCH wallet address to their in-game account before they can enter these Bitcoin.com Exchange sponsored events.

“Splinterlands is extremely excited to have Bitcoin.com Exchange – one of the most well known and trusted brands in the cryptocurrency space – on board as a sponsor,” the team stated. “We expect this partnership to greatly benefit the users of both platforms and we’re looking forward to more opportunities to work together in the future.”

Bitcoin.com Exchange was launched in early September 2019 as an easy-to-use platform with world-class security and a powerful trading engine. The platform employs institutional-grade encryption, two-factor authentication (2FA) and IP whitelisting to keep user accounts secure at all times. Available digital assets include ADA, ATOM, BCH, BTC, EOS, ETC, ETH, LTC, ONT, TRX, USDT, WAVES, XLM and XRP.

Games Are Great Applications for Crypto

Digital collectible card games such as Blizzard’s Hearthstone are wildly popular all around the world and bringing in billions in revenue each year according to gaming industry analysts. Many also think that the field is a perfect match for cryptocurrency-based collectible game items. Splinterlands provides an example of why this is, leveraging the technology to stand out from the established options.

Utilizing the transparency of the blockchain it’s possible to see how many of each different card exist in the entire game, so players can know exactly how rare and valuable their cards actually are. And cards can only be transferred with owners’ private keys, which means that the operators of the game cannot take them away from players and they are free to buy, sell, or trade them as they see fit, just like physical trading cards.

Additionally, all of the battle results, and the cards contained in packs, are generated by a published algorithm based on unpredictable data from the blockchain itself. The developers explain that this means that no one, not even themselves, can tamper with battle results, or give certain players better cards in packs.

Every match of Splinterlands consists of an ever-changing set of combat rules, a timed team building session and the actual fight. On average a fight won’t last longer than two minutes, guaranteeing an exciting experience and the ability to play on the go. By changing the combat rules with every fight, the game achieves unique fights and challenges players to really get to know their cards.

Unlike other card games, where it’s simply the player with the overall stronger team that wins, players in Splinterlands are challenged to adjust their team for every fight to best comply with the rules and achieve victory. Currently, there are over 200 different cards with balanced statistical mechanics and 46 abilities.

Splinterlands has also introduced another unique feature to add value to their cards by addressing the problem of duplicates in a completely different way from most games. Duplicate cards can be combined to create a stronger card. Not only will the player have leveled up but by combining the two cards, the player is also automatically reducing supply.

The use of blockchain technology and crypto assets in video games has begun to attract attention from the mainstream gaming industry recently. For example, in January it was reported that French video games giant Ubisoft is looking to support new startups in the field as the next season of its incubator program will focus on blockchain technology.

“Blockchain technology is entering every single industry, including the Entertainment industry,” explained the Ubisoft Entrepreneurs Lab. “We can see a nascent ecosystem flourishing in many different directions exploring new possibilities to envision the relationships with the gamers, and between them, virtual assets ownership and exchanges, transaction security, and all what a crypto currency can allow. We have already worked with Blockchain startups now for more than 3 seasons and we want to keep on progressing on that mysterious but promising topic.”

What do you think about Bitcoin.com Exchange sponsoring the decentralized card game Splinterlands? Share your thoughts in the comments section below.

Images courtesy of Shutterstock and Splinterlands.

Verify and track bitcoin cash transactions on our BCH Block Explorer, the best of its kind anywhere in the world. Also, keep up with your holdings, BCH and other coins, on our market charts at Bitcoin.com Markets, another original and free service from Bitcoin.com.