DATE:  17.03.2020, 09:07:11
TITLE: Google Pay And Apple Pay Now Usable To Buy Bitcoin And Spend It
URL:   https://cryptopotato.com/google-pay-and-apple-pay-now-usable-to-buy-bitcoin-and-spend-it/

Despite the crashing markets, companies are working hard to boost the further adoption of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies. In two separate announcements, Coinbase and the popular internet browser Opera revealed that they’ve made serious strides in this regard.

Coinbase Card Usable With Google Pay

The leading cryptocurrency exchange in the US, Coinbase, allows its users to get a cryptocurrency card through a partnership with Visa. Now, the card has enabled users to spend Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies directly from their Coinbase account using Google Pay.

Reportedly, this is the very first company that managed to allow users to make mobile payments with cryptocurrencies.

The option is currently available for selected countries such as the UK, Belgium, Finland, France, Italy, Slovakia, and a few other European countries. However, according to Coinbase, the support for the card will expand throughout this year. It’s important to note, though, that the card is still not supported on Apple Pay. However, another announcement from today provided help on the matter.

Opera Lets Users Buy Bitcoin Via Apple Pay

Opera is a popular internet browser that has been working hard to incorporate cryptocurrency payments into its infrastructure.

The explorer now allows US-based users to buy Bitcoin and Ether via Apple Pay and debit cards. In order to do so, Opera has partnered up with Wyre – a payments firm that specializes in web-based solutions.

Reports have it that the fees charged by Wyre will be set to $0.30 + 2.9% per transaction. This new feature is available for the three browsers of Opera – iOS Opera Touch, Android, and the desktop browser.

It’s important to note that the news comes at times when people are seemingly interested in buying Bitcoin.

Data from Google Trends reveals that the searches for “Buy Bitcoin” are almost in par with those for “Buy Gold” at the time of this writing. What is more, a few days ago, when Bitcoin’s price was crashing, searches for the “Buy Bitcoin” term surpassed those for gold. This indicates that retail interest might be increasing.

Enjoy reading? Please share:

Binance Futures Limited Offer: Use this link to register & get 10% discount on fees (Exclusive to CryptoPotato).



Click here to start trading on BitMEX and receive 10% discount on fees for 6 months.



