DATE:  17.03.2020, 15:11:00
TITLE: Ryan Reynolds, Blake Lively donate $1 mn to hunger relief organisations to beat coronavirus scare
URL:   https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/ryan-reynolds-blake-lively-donate-1-mn-to-hunger-relief-organisations-to-beat-coronavirus-scare/articleshow/74671632.cms

Bust The Myth Bubble: Sesame Oil, Alcohol Sprays Can't Prevent Coronavirus of 11 Next Prev







Play Slideshow Rumour Has It 9 Mar, 2020 A lot of what you hear or read about the coronavirus may be myths. WHO data busts a few common misconceptions. A lot of what you hear or read about the coronavirus may be myths. WHO data busts a few common misconceptions. Next Coronavirus Vaccination A Myth 9 Mar, 2020 Myth: Pneumonia vaccines will protect you against coronavirus. Reality: Vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and Haemophilus influenza type B (Hib) vaccine, do not provide protection against coronavirus. The virus is so new and different that it needs its own vaccine. Researchers are trying to develop a vaccine against 2019-nCoV, and WHO is supporting their efforts. However, while they are not effective against 2019-nCoV, vaccination against respiratory illnesses is highly recommended to protect your health. Myth: Pneumonia vaccines will protect you against coronavirus. Reality: Vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and Haemophilus influenza type B (Hib) vaccine, do not provide protection against coronavirus. The virus is so new and different that it needs its own vaccine. Researchers are trying to develop a vaccine against 2019-nCoV, and WHO is supporting their efforts. However, while they are not effective against 2019-nCoV, vaccination against respiratory illnesses is highly recommended to protect your health. Next What Kills Coronavirus? 9 Mar, 2020 Myth: Ultraviolet disinfection lamp can kill the coronavirus. Reality: UV lamps should not be used to sterilise hands or other areas of skin. Far from killing the virus, the UV radiation can actually cause skin irritation. Myth: Ultraviolet disinfection lamp can kill the coronavirus. Reality: UV lamps should not be used to sterilise hands or other areas of skin. Far from killing the virus, the UV radiation can actually cause skin irritation. Next Corona Stays Hidden 9 Mar, 2020 Myth: Thermal scanners can help detect infected people. Reality: Thermal scanners are effective in detecting people who have developed a fever due to the coronavirus infection. However, they cannot detect people who are infected but are not yet sick with the fever. This is because it takes between two and 10 days before people who are infected become sick and develop a fever. Myth: Thermal scanners can help detect infected people. Reality: Thermal scanners are effective in detecting people who have developed a fever due to the coronavirus infection. However, they cannot detect people who are infected but are not yet sick with the fever. This is because it takes between two and 10 days before people who are infected become sick and develop a fever. Next Only On The Surface 9 Mar, 2020 Myth: Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over the body kill the coronavirus. Reality: Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. In fact, spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes (ie eyes, mouth). Be aware that both alcohol and chlorine can be used to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used under appropriate recommendations. Myth: Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over the body kill the coronavirus. Reality: Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. In fact, spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes (ie eyes, mouth). Be aware that both alcohol and chlorine can be used to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used under appropriate recommendations. Next

LOS ANGELES: Hollywood couple Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively has donated USD 1 million to food banks amid the coronavirus outbreak. The actors made donation to two hunger relief organisations - Feeding America and Food Banks Canada "Covid-19 has brutally impacted older adults and low income families. Blake and I are donating USD 1 million to be split between Feeding America and Food Banks Canada. If you can give, these orgs need our help. 'Take care of your bodies and hearts. Leave room for joy. Call someone who's isolated and might need connection," Reynolds wrote in the announcement posted on Instagram.Lively added, "Remember the love that can travel through all this. Communities are stepping up - shopping for the elderly, making lunches for children. We can all do something for one another, even if that's simply staying home."Feeding America operates a network of food banks across the US while Food Banks Canada runs in Reynolds' native Canada.Other Hollywood celebrities who have urged people to donate to Feeding America include Justin Timberlake, Natalie Portman, Ben Affleck, Vanessa Hudgens, Alan Cumming, Gigi Hadid, Bella Hadid, Josh Gad and Nick Lachey.Last week, celebrated fashion designer Donatella Versace and her daughter Allegra Versace Beck, had donated 200,000 euros to a hospital in Milan, Italy, to help battle the coronavirus.Fashion industry giant Giorgio Armani has also donated USD 1.9 million to the Luigi Sacco and San Raffaele hospitals and the Istituto dei Tumori in Milan, as well as the Istituto Lazzaro Spallanzani in Rome.The virus, which originated in China's Wuhan city, has claimed over 7000 lives and infected more than 175,530 people in 145 countries.