DATE:  07.02.2020, 10:30:12
TITLE: Bitcoin.com, Danal Japan and ALLEX Partner up to Offer BCH Payment Services
URL:   https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-com-danal-japan-and-allex-partner-up-to-offer-bch-payment-services/

Bitcoin.com, Danal Japan and ALLEX Partner up to Offer BCH Payment Services

Danal Japan Co., Ltd. (CEO: Riichi Omura), which develops mobile payment systems and a financial settlement infrastructure business, ALLEX, a Standard Capital company that develops security token exchange and STO businesses (Representative: TAISEI YAMAGUCHI), Bitcoin.com (Representative: Roger Ver), which provides Bitcoin Cash (BCH), and Bitcoin Cash (BCH).We are pleased to announce that a business alliance has been concluded among the three companies in order to implement the payment services by BCH.

Enhancement of Bitcoin Cash (BCH) payment service, which is used for payments at EC sites and restaurants, is cheaper than existing payment methods. It’s advantages are low fees, quick and easy transactions, and excellent convenience. The number of companies that implement coin-to-coin cash (BCH) payments is increasing every year.

Providing a new Bitcoin Cash (BCH) payment service through a three-company alliance Danal Co., Ltd. is acting as a registered company by Japanese law. Danal Co., Ltd. will be paying for crypto asset coin in 2019, launched at a group company. At the same time, it launched the world’s first commercial blockchain-based payment platform. It has established a system for online and offline cryptocurrency settlement and settlement using online technology, which has already implemented by a convenience store (7-ELEVEN) in Korea, KFC, Dominoʼs and others who have started Paycoin payments. At the same time, they are preparing the provision of Paycoin at our affiliate stores. Bitcoin.com and ALLEX partner are going to expand settlement with Bitcoin Cash (BCH). Allex’s security token exchange “ALLEX” is used for payment conversion and API provision.

About the security token exchange “ALLEX” The security token exchange “ALLEX” is a security token exchange designed to improve the liquidity of the private equity investment market. The crucial point is a liability of the token exchange. The alternative asset market is expected to form a $ 21.1 trillion in 2025. Private equity is expected to reach $ 10.2 trillion (2020: $ 6,4 trillion).

About Bitcoin.com

Company Name: Saint Bitts LLC

Representative: Roger Ver

Business: Operation of Bitcoin.com, system development, mining of bitcoin cash (BCH)

URL: https://www.bitcoin.com/

About Danal Japan Co., Ltd.

Company name: Danal Japan Co., Ltd.

Representative: Riichi Omura

Location: Shinjuku-ku,iLandtower6F,6-5-1, Nishi-Shinjuku,Tokyo

Established: February 2012

Capital: 50 million yen (as of September 2019)

URL: http://www.danal.jp

Business: Development of mobile payment system and provision of financial payment infrastructure

About Danal Corporation

Company name: Danal Corporation (KOSDAQ 064260)

Representative: PARK SAN MAN

Established: July 1997

Location: 55, Bundang-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do (Korea)

Capital: 30,881,857 WON (as of September 2019)

URL: http://www.danal.co.kr/

Business: Development of mobile payment system and provision of financial payment infrastructure

About ALLEX

CEZA (Cagayan Economic Zone Authority), a special economic zone in the Philippines, established to improve the liquidity of the financing market. The security token exchange “ALLEX” was opened in January 2020. New facilitiesin Chile, Indonesia and Malaysia are under preparation for opening the security token exchange with the aim to develop the financial markets of South Asian countries. As our mission for the future, we are preparing to comply and develop the laws and regulations to contribute to future implementation of the STO.

Representative：TAISEI YAMAGUCHI

ALLEX Cayman:

Third Floor, Landmark Square, 64 Earth Close

PO Box 707 Camana Bay

Grand Cayman Cayman Islands KY1-9006

ALLEX Philippines:

Cyberpark, St. Ana, Cagayan, Philippines

URL：https://www.allexchange.net/

[Inquiries from the press regarding this matter]

Public Relations: Danal Japan Co., Ltd .: Aso, Ishibashi

Phone: 03-6256-9924 Email: info@danal.jp